

BIRLA CENTRAL LIBRARY j 

P1LANI [ Rajasthan ] $ 


Book 


Accession Nor 


ifjis-/ 

_s 

... a^f-s^f-r 


►#♦♦♦$♦♦$ <* 4 0 $ #j& $ $ $ * 





STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 



BLACKIE & SON LIMITED 
50 Old Bailey, London 
17 Stanhope Street, Glasgow 

BLACKIE & SON (INDIA) LIMITED 
Warwick House, Fort Street, Bombay 

BLACKIE & SON (CANADA) LIMITED 
1118 Bay Street, Toronto 



STEAM CONDENSING 
PLANT ' 

IN THEORY AND PRACTICE 


BY 

JAMES SIM, B.Sc.Eng.(Lond.) 

Chief Designer, Condenser Department 
Messrs. G. & J. Weir, Ltd., Eng.’.eers, Catheart, Glasgow 


NEW EDITION 


BLACKIE & SON LIMITED 

LONDON AND GLASGOW 

1926 



First issued , 1925 
New edition , 1926 


Printed in Great Britain by 
Blackie & Son t Limited , Glasgow 



PREFACE 


This book has been written with the object of providing students 
with rational methods for the design of steam condensing plant; 
but the author hopes that much of the subject matter will be found 
useful by engineers engaged in the design or operation of such 
plant. 

In modern steam power plant, the condensing plant is so 
closely allied to the evaporator, the feed heater, the de-aerator, 
and the feed system that, to give the book some degree of com¬ 
pleteness, a chapter on each of these latter units has been included. 

An endeavour has been made to give the book some practical 
value by the introduction of definite experimental co-efficients and 
constants in the various formulae. Some of these have been col¬ 
lected from the technical press, while others have been found by 
the author to agree with actual results. 

The worked examples have an educative value and have been 
specially chosen to bring out the principles involved, and to ex¬ 
emplify methods of calculation. 

The steam tables used throughout are those by Marks and 
Davis, published by Messrs. Longmans, Green & Co., Ltd. 

Many illustrations have been included showing modern plant, 
and the author is indebted to the various firms mentioned in the 
text for permission to publish these, also to Power for permis¬ 
sion to reproduce a set of curves. Every care has been taken in the 
text to acknowledge the source from which the information has 
been obtained. 

The author desires to express his thanks to Messrs. G. & J. 
Weir, Ltd., Cathcart, Glasgow, for permission to publish data 



VI 


PREFACE 


obtained in their experimental and testing departments, to Mr. 
J. Young for valuable hints on Water-Extraction Pumps, and to 
Mr. G. C. Roxburgh for the preparation of the diagrams. 

The greatest care has been taken to avoid errors. Should, 
however, any be found, the author will be glad to have them pointed 
out. He will also welcome suggestions for the improvement of the 
book. 

J. SIM. 

94 Ledard Road, Glasgow. 

February, 1925. 


NOTE 


The opportunity of a new edition has been taken to make sundry minor 
corrections throughout the book. The chapter on “ De-aeration Plants ” has 
been re-written so as to bring it into line with the very rapidly advancing 
practice on this subject. 



CONTENTS 


Page 

..Chapter I. SURFACE CONDENSERS - - - i 

iMean Temperature Difference —Tfeat Flow Across Tube Walls 
-^-^Application of Dalton’s Law of Partial Pressures in Steam 
Condensers — Quantity of Cooling Water and Possible Vacuum 
—‘Loss of Head due to Friction in Condenser Tubes — Tube 
Cleaning Apparatus—Critical Velocity in Tubes—‘Pressure Drop or 
Vacuum Loss in Steam Space — Variation in the Rate of Con¬ 
densation throughout a Surface Condenser—Shape of Condensers 
for Constant Steam Velocity — Mass of Air and Vapour to be 
Withdrawn from a Condenser to Maintain a given Vacuum—Air 
Cooler Fitted to Surface Condenser—Coefficient of Performance— 

How to Fix Up the Principal Dimensions and Quantities of a 
Surface Condenser for given Conditions—Considerations which 
Show that only High Vacuum Condensers need be Fitted with an 
Air Cooler—Area of Exhaust Inlet—Examples on Surface Con¬ 
densers—Various Makes of Surface Condensers—Weir Uniflux 
Surface Condenser—Mirrlees Watson Surface Condenser—Contra¬ 
flow Surface Condenser—Regenerative Surface Condensers—John 
Crane Metallic Packing for Condenser Tubes. 

Chapter II. LOW-LEVEL JET CONDENSERS - - - 77 

Diameter of the Cooling Water Inlet Pipe for a Contra-flow Jet 
Condenser — Head of Water in Trays of Contra-flow Jet Con¬ 
densers — Necessary Volume of Contra-flow Jet Condenser — 
Necessary Area of Spray Nozzles in Parallel-flow Condenser — 

Air Coolers in Parallel-flow Condensers — Hick-Breguet Low- 
level Jet Condenser — Mirrlees Low-level Jet Condensers — 
Examples on Jet Condensers. 

Chapter III. HIGH-LEVEL JET CONDENSERS - 98 

Horse-power Absorbed by Condensing Water Pump for Baro¬ 
metric Jet Condenser — Mirrlees High-level Jet Condenser. 

Chapter IV. EJECTOR CONDENSERS.104 

Korting Multi-jet Ejector Condenser — To Find the Velocity 
of Efflux from the Water Nozzles — To Find the Velocity at the 

vii 



Vlll 


CONTENTS 


Inlet to the Diffuser—Relation between the Velocity at the inlet 
to the Diffuser and the Pressure Rise in the Diffuser—Korting 
Vacuum Breaker — Test Results of a No. 40 Korting Ejector 
Condenser. 

Chapter V. EVAPORATIVE CONDENSERS - 

Ledward & Beckett’s Evaporative Condenser—Test Results of a 
Ledward & Beckett Condenser—Examples. 

Chapter VI. AIR EJECTORS AND AIR PUMPS - 

Steam-jet Operated Air Ejectors — Steam Nozzles — Mirrlees 
Air Ejectors—Application to Surface Condensers—Hick-Breguet 
Ejectors—Weir Air Ejectors—Radojet Air Ejectors—Delas Air 
Extractors — Air and Steam Operated Ejector — Mirrlees-Le 
Blanc Rotary Air Pump-—Air Pump Capacity Tests and Air 
Leak Nozzles—To Find the Quantity of Air Flowing through 
an Air Nozzle — Allowable Air Leakage — Investigation of the 
Requirements of Air Pumps for High and Low Vacuum — 
Marine Air Pumps — The Weir Independent Dual Air Pump — 
Displacement Air Pumps with Steam Jet Augmenters — Parsons 
Vacuum Augmenter — Weir Paragon Air Pump — Radojet 
Vacuum Augmenter — Kinetic Air Pump (Rotary System) — 
Marine Type Kinetic Air Pump — Edwards Air Pump. 

Chapter VII. WATER-EXTRACTION PUMPS 

Mirrlees Extraction Pump — Weir Extraction Pump — Drysdale 
Motor-driven Water-Extraction Pump — Theory of Water-Ex¬ 
traction Pumps — Quantity Discharged by Pump — Hydraulic 
Efficiency of Pump — Suction Pipes — Examples on Water-Ex¬ 
traction Pumps—Practical Considerations which Affect the Design 
of Water-Extraction Pumps. 

Chapter VIII. CIRCULATING PUMPS ----- 

Power Required to Drive the Pump — Drysdale Circulating Pump 
— Examples — Suction and Discharge Piping for Circulating 
Water Pumps — Examples. 

Chapter IX. EVAPORATORS ------- 

The Weir Evaporator — Surface in Evaporators — Mean Tem¬ 
perature Difference — Sea-water Evaporators — Continuous 
Brining of Sea-water Evaporators — Theory of Brine Ejector — 
Continuous Feed to Evaporators — Safety Valves on Evaporators 
— Conditions when a Tube Bursts — Board of Trade Rule for 
the Size of Evaporator Safety Valves — Testing Brine Density — 
Multiple Effect Evaporators — Heating Surfaces to be Provided 
in Multiple Effect Evaporators — Examples — Prache and Bouillon 
Thermo-compressor. 



CONTENTS 


IX 


Page 

Chapter X. SURFACE FEED WATER HEATERS - - -238 

Necessary Surface in Feed Water Heaters — Examples — Sur¬ 
face Feed Heaters Fitted with Steel Tubes — Superheated Steam 
in Surface Feed Heater — Direct Contact Feed Heaters. 

Chapter XI. FEED SYSTEMS - .248 

Open and Closed Feed Systems—Theories of Corrosion—Weir 
Closed Feed System—Mirrlees Watson Closed Feed System—Hick 
Hargreaves Closed Feed System. 

Chapter XII. DE-AERATION PLANTS ----- 262 

Types — Weir De-aerating Plant — Hick Hargreaves De-aerating 
Plant — Contraflo Engineering Company’s De-aerating Plant — 
Method of Measuring Dissolved Oxygen in Feed Water — Method 
of Detecting the Corrosive Properties of Feed Water. 

Index ..271 





SYMBOLS 


A cross-sectional area of tube; 
entrance area to condenser. 

\ de area at diffuser entrance. 

A w total area of nozzles. 
a volume passing any row of tubes. 
a a diffuser entrance area. 
a d diffuser outlet area. 
a t diffuser throat area. 
b constant. 

C constant. 

C d coefficient of discharge. 

C 0 total condensation. 

C* coefficient of velocity. 

D internal diameter of tube in inches; 

outside diameter of tube in inches. 
d density; 

internal diameter of tube in feet; 
pressure drop. 

F total friction loss in piping. 
f constant. 

G cooling water in gallons per minute. 
G a condensing water for air cooling. 

G, cooling water evaporated. 
g acceleration due to gravity. 

H total heat flow per hour; 

total loss in friction head. 

H e effective head. 

H f head lost due to condenser friction. 

H, head lost due to entrance friction. 

H, head lost due to tube friction. 

h heat drop; 
heat flow; 
steam head in feet. 

J Joule’s mechanical equivalent of heat. 
K coefficient (eddy losses); 
constant; 

tube spacing factor. 

xi 



SYMBOLS 


xii 


L latent heat. 

L w average latent heat. 

I length of tube. 

4 length of diffuser. 

M mass of steam condensed per second; 

total mass of air and vapour. 

M, mass of vapour condensed out by cooler. 
m hydraulic mean depth; 

mass of air in pounds per hour; 
mass of water passing per second. 
m v mass of vapour. 

N number of nozzles; 

number of tubes per row. 
n number of right-angled bends; 

number of tubes per flow. 

P pitch of tubes; 

Poiseuille’s figure. 

P x pressure at inlet to condenser, in pounds per square inch. 
P 2 pressure at outlet of condenser, in pounds per square inch. 
P 1S vapour pressure at inlet. 

P^ vapour pressure at outlet. 

P rf diffuser outlet pressure. 

P. diffuser throat pressure. 
p total pressure at bottom of condenser. 
p a partial air pressure. 

p xa partial air pressure at inlet to air cooler. 
p 2a partial air pressure at outlet of air cooler. 
p x absolute pressure at inlet to air cooler. 
p^a absolute pressure at outlet of air cooler. 
p x pressure at inlet to condenser, in pounds per square foot. 
p 2 pressure at outlet of condenser, in pounds per square foot. 
Q quantity of steam; 
quantity of water, 
quantity of air circulating. 
q dryness fraction of steam. 

R total resistance = R w + R, + R y + R a . 

R, relative humidity of entering air. 

R 2 relative humidity of leaving air. 

R a resistance due to air blanket. 

R f resistance due to water film. 

R r resistance across tube wall. 

R w resistance at surface of separation of tube wall and water, 
r specific heat of air; 

total resistance to heat flow. 

5 total condensing surface; 
tube surface. 

S c condensing surface of cooler. 

^ safety height of high-level condenser; 
steam temperature. 



SYMBOLS 


xm 


T x inlet water temperature. 

T 2 outlet water temperature. 

T c condensate temperature. 

T s steam temperature. 
t temperature of air and vapour. 
t a temperature of air leaving condenser. 

4 temperature at inlet to air cooler. 

4 temperature at outlet of air cooler. 
t x temperature corresponding to V r 

4 temperature corresponding to condensate temperature. 
t ia inlet air temperature. 

4 , outlet air temperature. 

T c , inlet temperature of G f . 

V specific volume of steam. 

Vj vacuum at top of condenser. 

V 2 vacuum at bottom of condenser. 

V a specific volume of air. 

Vj specific volume of vapour. 

V M specific volume of air at inlet to cooler. 

V 2 * specific volume of air at outlet of cooler. 

V„ specific volume of vapour at inlet to cooler. 

V„ specific volume of vapour at outlet of cooler. 

V d diffuser discharge volume. 

V, diffuser throat volume. 
v velocity of water in tube. 
v a velocity of air and vapour. 
v e critical velocity; 

velocity at inlet to diffuser. 
v d velocity at diffuser discharge. 
v s exit velocity of steam. 
v t velocity at diffuser throat. 

W weight of steam condensed per hour; 

weight of water passing, in pounds per hour. 
w weight of steam condensed per square foot. 
w lf w 3 saturation weight of vapour. 

y specific heat of air. 

5 density of steam. 

0 angle between guide cones and water jet. 

9 j difference of temperature at cooling water inlet. 

0 2 difference of temperature at cooling water outlet. 
d m mean temperature difference. 

[i viscosity of water. 




STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


CHAPTER I 

Surface Condensers 

The function of a steam condenser is to condense steam under given 
conditions with the least expenditure of energy and the minimum loss of 
heat. 

There are five types of condensers in common use to-day; these are: 

1. Surface condensers. 

2. Low-level jet condensers. 

3. High-level or barometric condensers. 

4. Ejector condensers. 

5. Evaporative condensers. 

The most common type is the surface condenser, which has the great 
advantage that the condensate is not thrown to waste, but is returned to the 
boilers through the feed-water system. This type we shall deal with first. 

The ideal to be aimed at when designing a surface condenser is to main¬ 
tain a vacuum at the steam inlet corresponding to the temperature of the 
condensate, and to do this with a minimum pumping of air, condensate, 
and circulating water. The air pumping can be kept down to a minimum 
by the elimination of air leakage in the vacuum system; the condensate 
pumping depends on the conditions of the installation; and the circulating 
water pumping depends conjointly. on the conditions of the station and 
quantity of water necessary, which in turn depend upon the heat flow obtain¬ 
able across the tube walls. 

MEAN TEMPERATURE DIFFERENCE 

The heat flow across the tube walls depends upon the temperature dif¬ 
ference between the s t eam o n the outside of the tubes and the temperature 
of the water inside the tubes, and the greater the temperature difference 
the greater the heat flow. TThe true mean temperature difference is not the 
simple arithmetic medn. 

(D450) 


1 


1 



2 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


Consider fig. i: s is the steam temperature, which for the present may 
be assumed to be constant; T x is the inlet water temperature; T 2 is the 
outlet water temperature. 

The water enters the tube at A and leaves at B. In travelling along the 
tube the temperature of the water rises as shown by the curve CD; at the 
inlet end, A, the temperature difference between the steam and the water 
is greater than the temperature difference at the outlet end, B, and hence 
the rate of temperature rise of the water is greater at the inlet end of the 



tube than it is at the outlet end. The curve CD, therefore, has its greatest 
slope at C, and the slope becomes progressively less from C to D. 

Take a small element of tube length dx distant x from the inlet end of 
the tube, and let t be the water temperature at that point. The tempera¬ 
ture difference at this point will be (s — t). 

Let W be the weight of water passing in pounds per hour. Then W 
will be raised in temperature in passing from x to (x + dx) by an amount 
dt , and will absorb an amount of heat W (dt) B.Th.U. 

Again the heat flow across the small element of tube surface (dx) will be 



But, since the temperature is steady, the heat absorbed by the water 
must equal the heat flow across the tube walls. 


••• W (*) = i —‘dx, 
dt dx 

or “ wr. 

Integrating this expression we get 

' log e C-lo g< ( S -*) = 4 

where C is the constant of integration. 

* See p. 7. 


(1) 

(*) 





SURFACE CONDENSERS 


3 


To find the constant of integration C we know that when x = o,t = T 1; 
therefore by substitution we get 

l°g«C - lofd* ~ TO = 

or log e C = log^-Tj).(3) 

Substituting this in (2) we get 

lo g e( s - T i) - lo g*( s ~t) = 


01* log, 


s — Tj __ x 
' s - t ~ WR 


This equation gives the temperature of water at any point along the 
tube, and from it the curve CD can be plotted for any given condition. 
From the fundamental equation of logarithms, viz.: 

a x = b. 


where # is the log of b to the base a , the above equation (4) may 
be written in the following form: 



or s — t = (s — Tj)e WR 


(5) 


The mean temperature difference from A to B is the difference between 
s and the mean of t\ if, therefore, we denote the mean temperature differ¬ 
ence by O my and the length of the tube by /, we have 

area of FEDC = O m x /. 

Now FEDC = f (s — t)dx. 

• 0 

f(s ~t)dx. 

I j 0 

Substituting from (5) the value of (s — t) we get 
O m = \ f (s ~ T Je-mdx 

= * ~ Tl f'e'^dx 

= WR)J 

= WR)(«TWR - 1). 






4 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


From (5) we have 

5 — t = (s — TJ^wk 
Also when x = /, t = T 9 


- 2 > 


or 


s - T 2 - (s - Tj)« wr 


Then, substituting these values in the above equation, we get 

WR 

K = — ~y~[( 5 ~ T a ) — (s — T,)] 

WR 

= ^(T 2 - T,). 


.( 6 ) 


It may be noted that this equation can be deduced at once from 
equation (1) by integration. For WR dt — dx(s — t ), so that 

WR il'dt = f o (s - t)dx, i.e. WR(T 2 - T x ) = 10 m . 


Again from equation (4) we have, when x = l, t = T 2 , 

l 

WR 




Then, substituting this value in equation (6), we get 

p _ Ta-T, 

C'ru - - 




This equation is more convenient for practical use when written in 

the form: t x * 

a = (j ~ T l) ~ (* ~ T 2) 

" '°^) ' 

Now (s — T x ) is the difference of temperature at cooling-water inlet; 
call this 0 V (s — T 2 ) is the difference of temperature at cooling-water 
outlet; call this 6 2 . 

The equation then takes the form: 

.( 7 ) 


6 „ 


or 


e m = 


_ @1 ^2 


2-3 lo g 10 r 


.( 8 ) 


The above is _Grashof’s equatio n, and has been here deduced for a 
constant steam temperature, but the same equation holds when the steam 






SURFACE CONDENSERS 


5 


temperature at outlet is lower than that at inlet. In general s — T 2 is the 
difference between incoming steam and outgoing cooling water, and s — T x 
is the difference of temperature between the condensate and incoming 
cooling water. The equation also holds whether the flow be counter current 
or cross current or parallel current, and is also independent of the number 
of passes. Further, it is applicable to feed water-heaters, oil coolers, or 
the like. 

To facilitate the calculation of this equation many charts have been 
prepared, the most straightforward one which has come under the author’s 



observation being that published in Power , Vol. 55, No. 11, which is re¬ 
produced in fig. 2. 

To use the chart: first , find the greatest temperature difference, 6 ly 
of the fluids, which in a steam condenser is usually the temperature at the 
cooling-water inlet; second , find the least temperature difference 0 2 ; third , 
enter the chart at the bottom at the greatest temperature difference 6 1 and 
move vertically till the curve of least temperature difference, # 2 , is reached; 
fourth , move horizontally to the left-hand scale and read there the mean 
temperature difference d m . 

Example .—A surface condenser of the two-flow type has cooling water 
entering at 6o° F. and leaving at 75° F.; the temperature of the steam enter¬ 
ing the condenser is 83° F., and the temperature of the condensate leaving 
the condenser is 78° F. Find the mean temperature difference. 





6 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


From equation (8) 6 m 


e m 


2-3 x 0-352 
= 12-35° F. 

If we compare this with the arithmetic mean we find the latter to be 

a _ (7 8 - 6o ) + ( 8 3 ~ 75) 

C/ AM — - 

2 

^ 18 + 8 
2 

= 26 
2 

= i 3 ° F. 

The dotted line in fig. i shows how the temperature along the tube 
would rise should the arithmetic mean be the correct one, but, as stated 
on p. 2, the temperature difference at the inlet is greatest, and hence 
the water temperature at the inlet end has a greater rate of rise than at the 
outlet, and the true mean temperature difference is therefore less than the 
arithmetic mean. 

Grashof’s equation is not strictly true when the steam which is being 
condensed contains air, and the greater the percentage of air the greater 
the deviation from the above equation. There is also the change in the vis¬ 
cosity of the cooling water which affects the truth of the equation. 

In a steam condenser the air density varies, being greatest at the coldest 
part, that is, where the cooling water enters. As will be explained later, 
this air tends to form a blanket round the tubes and retard the heat flow, 
and the denser this blanket, the greater the resistance to heat flow. The 
heat, therefore, added to the circulating water at the bottom of a modern 
condenser is less than the above equation takes account of, so that the rate 
of rise of the curve CD is less at the inlet end C and greater at the qutlet 
end D than is shown in fig. i. 

The above equation (8) for 0 m is generally accepted, and all the constants 
which follow have been worked out assuming the equation to hold. This 
does not affect the final results since the constants are deduced from experi¬ 
ment; moreover, this equation gives a lower 9 m than the actual, which is 
on the safe side when fixing up the actual surface necessary for any con¬ 
denser. 


_ u i 




2*3 log 


10 


01 

00 


(78 - 60) - 

2-3 X log 10 

18-8 
2‘3 X log 10 2-25 
10 


(83-75) 

78 — 60 

83 -75 




SURFACE CONDENSERS 


7 


HEAT FLOW ACROSS TUBE WALLS 

There have been many formulas deduced for the heat flow across the 
tube walls of steam condensers, but the theory first published in Engineering , 
January, 1914, has been found by the author to agree best with tests on 
actual steam condensers. In what follows, therefore, some subject matter 
has been drawn from the above journal. 

The laws governing the flow of heat across a metal wall or partition are: 

1. The heat flow varies directly as the temperature difference between 
the one side and the other. 

I 2. The heat flow varies inversely as the resistance to the heat flow. 

Let ab (fig. 3) be a metal wall, with a fluid of temperature s on the one 


TEMPERATURE S 



TEMPERATURE t 

Fig- 2 


side and a fluid of temperature t on the other side. If r be the total resistance 
to heat flow from the one fluid to the other, and h the heat flow, then 



where C is a constant and can be incorporated in r, so that we can write for 


7 simply I. 


Hence 



( 9 ) 


In a steam condenser the resistance R is'made up of four resistances, viz: 

R^,, the resistance at the surface of separation of the tube wall and the 
water: 

R*, the resistance across the tube wall itself: " 

R/, the resistance due to the water film of condensed steam on the outside 
of the tube: 

R a , the resistance due to the air blanket surrounding the tube. 

Fig. 4 indicates these resistances. 



Fig. 4 






8 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


These resistances depend on the following factors: 

depends upon the water velocity in the tube, upon the tube diameter, 
and upon the viscosity and density of the water passing through the tube. 

R* depends upon the thickness and upon the material from which the 
tube is made, and is constant for any one tube. 

Ry depends upon the viscosity and density of the water film adhering 
to the outside of the tube. 

R a depends upon the quantity of air in the condenser, an air blanket 
forming round the tube due to the steam condensing and leaving the air 
behind, thus preventing fresh steam from getting at the tube; this resistance 
is by far the greatest one. 

It is noteworthy that these resistances exist mainly at surfaces of sepa¬ 
ration, the resistance across the tube wall being comparatively small 

If R be the total resistance from the steam to the water, then 

R — R a T - R/ t + R w . (10) 


When equation (9), viz. h = , is applied to the conditions which 

R 

obtain in a steam condenser, the numerator (s — t ) is the mean temperature 
difference between the steam on the one side of the tube wall and the water 
on the other side. 

Denoting the total heat flow per hour across the condensing surface by 
H, we get * 

H = w 


or 


R’ 

R = 

H 


Now the total heat flow H = W X L, where W is the weight of steam 
condensed per hour, and L the heat given up by i lb. of steam in con¬ 
densing. 

.-. R = 


ft. 


W x L 

Now, instead of taking the whole weight of steam condensed, let us 
take the weight w condensed per square foot of tube surface, so that 

9 - 


R = 


.(11) 


w X L' 

This gives a value to R which is very small, and to facilitate practical 
calculation it is better to change the unit of resistance so that in the new 
units 


or 


R = 


w 


1 coo x 6„, 
zv X L 
1000 x 9 m 
R X L 


.(12) 






SURFACE CONDENSERS 


9 


For practical work L may be taken at 1000 B.Th.U., so that 


w 


e m 

+ R t + R/ + R a 


(13) 


We have here now an equation which enables us to determine the rate 
of condensation (zo) y if we know the practical value of the individual resistances 
R w , &c. Let us first consider the resistance R w . 

It is now fairly well established that this resistance R w varies with the 
viscosity, density, and velocity of the cooling water and the internal diameter 
of the tube. From experiments and investigations made by the author 
on actual condensers this is borne out in practice. 

This resistance 


R 


zv 


7 


V 0S ~ 


where f,1 = viscosity of the water, d = density, v = velocity of water in 
tube in feet per second, and k = a constant depending on the diameter of 
the tube. 

For any one diameter of tube we can write: 


and 


fik 

~d 


c, 


c 


W US2 


( 14 ) 


The value of C has been found from experiment, and may be read directly 
from the graphs in fig. 5 for the diameter of tube used. The water tempera¬ 
ture to be taken is the average between the inlet and the outlet, and v can 
be found from the quantity of water passing. 

The tube velocity should always be kept above the critical. Below the 
critical velocity the water flows through the tube in stream lines, and the 
transfer of heat from the tube walls to the water is simply by conduction, 
and water being a very bad conductor the heat transference becomes very 
small. Above the critical velocity turbulent flow exists, the water swirling 
and eddying throughout the whole tube. Each particle of water, therefore, 
remains in contact with the tube wall for a small fraction of a second, picks 
up its quota of heat, and is then swirled away through the whole body of 
water in the tube. The heat, therefore, is quickly transferred to the water 
in the tube, and the greater the tube velocity the greater the turbulence, and 
hence the faster the heat is imparted to the water. 

As equation (14) shows, the resistance to the heat flow R w varies inversely 
as the velocity raised to the power 0*82. 

The value of R r , for clean condenser tubes 18 S.W.G. thick, may be 
taken as 0-08; a very small deposit, however, on the tube surface is sufficient 
to considerably increase this value, as scale is a very bad heat conductor. 





IO 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


With the high vacuum demanded to-day by turbine conditions, it is very 
essential that the tubes be kept free from scale or oily deposits, because of 
the small available temperature gradient across the tube wall, and the smallest 
additional resistance to the heat flow is immediately shown in the vacuum. 
This is one of the advantages of a high water velocity condenser, as the 
high velocity not only decreases the resistance R w , but it tends to scour the 
tubes of these deposits. The author has had occasion to examine con¬ 
densers which were reported to be giving a vacuum below the designed 
value, and frequently the removal of these thin deposits by the application 

7 r i i i i i i i rm i i ~m i rn m t i i r i mti i r i i i i i i i r i m i tt r » 



Fig- 5 

of a weak solution of hydrochloric acid was all that was necessary to bring 
the vacuum over the designed value. 

The value of Ry is not, so far as the author is aware, accurately known, 
but the sum of Ry and R a is known with sufficient accuracy for practical 
purposes, and varies with the design of the condenser and the conditions 
under which it operates. 

Minimum and maximum values of (R/ + R a ) are: 

turbines, o-6 to 1*2; 

1 reciprocating engines, 1*2 to 1*5. 

The value of R a for air-free steam has been investigated by Professor 
H. L. Callendar, F.R.S., and others. Callendar’s value for R a (see Encyclo¬ 
pedia Britannica , article “ Heat ”) works out for the units chosen here as 
0-342. This was for steam at atmospheric pressure and 212° F. temperature; 
but, for steam at condenser pressures, this should be increased to 0-48. 
However, since it is impossible under condenser conditions to get absolutely 
air-free steam, the true value of R a need not concern us here. Moreover 













SURFACE CONDENSERS 


ii 


the percentage of air in the steam varies very considerably from the top to 
the bottom of a surface condenser, due to the steam condensing and leaving 
the air behind, so that the air density is greatest where the condenser is coldest, 
or, in the present-day surface condensers, at the bottom. Therefore, for 
our present practical needs we only require the average value of R a . 

We are now in a position to fix up the necessary condensing surface under 
any specified conditions, and this we proceed to do. 

Example .—A land surface condenser of the two-flow type has cooling 
water entering at 50° F. and leaving at 70° F., the temperature of the steam 
entering the condenser is 8o° F., and the temperature of the condensate 
leaving the condenser 73 0 F.; the tube velocity is 6 ft. per second, and the 
tubes are f in. O/D., 18 S.W.G. thick. It is required to find the possible 
rate of condensation and the surface necessary to condense 150,000 lb. of 
steam per hour. Take L = 1000 B.Th.U. per pound, and R a = 1‘15- 
First find the mean temperature difference by equation 


e m = 


_ ^1 ^2 


2*3 logiOTT 
V* 


_ (73 - 5°) ~ (80 ~ 70) 


2-3 logic 73 


50 


80 — 70 


___ 23 — IO 

~ 2-3 X log 10 2-3 

= 13 
2*3 X 0-362’ 

e m = 15-62° F. 


Then by equation (13) and making Ry -j- R a = R a and substituting we get 

e„, 

w = - - - 

R w + Rj + 

= i 5 ' 62 

Rk, + 0-08 + 1-15’ 


Now from the curves in fig. 5 read off the value of C for f-in. O/D tubes, and 
for the average temperature of the cooling water which will be 6o° F. 


3/4 

6° 82 


= 3-4 
4'348 


= 0-782. 


Then 



12 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


Substituting this value above we get 

15*62 

w = o ^ 

0*782 + o*o8 + 1*15 

= 1 S' 6z 
2*012 

= 7*76 lb. per square foot. 

Therefore to condense 150,000 lb. per hour the surface 
S = -—g- = *9,33° sq. ft. 

Example .—A marine surface condenser, having 8000 sq. ft. of surface and 
f-in. 0 /D brass tubes, 18 S.W.G. thick, is to condense 75,000 lb. of steam 
per hour. Find the vacuum which will be attained at the top of the con¬ 
denser, when the inlet and outlet temperatures of the cooling water are 6o° F. 
and 8o° F. respectively. The temperature of the condensate is io° F. lower 
than the vacuum temperature at the top of the condenser. Assume that 
L = 1000 B.Th.U., and R a = 0*9. The tube velocity v = 6 ft. per 
second. 

Answer, 28*5 in. Hg. 

APPLICATION OF DALTON’S LAW OF PARTIAL PRESSURES 
IN STEAM CONDENSERS 

Dalton’s law of partial pressures states that in any mixture of gases the 
total pressure exerted is the sum of the pressures of each of the gases which 
make up the mixture. 

In a steam condenser we have a mixture of steam and air, and the total 
absolute pressure which exists in the condenser is the sum of the pressures 
exerted by the steam and the non-condensable gases. These gases consist 
chiefly of air, C 0 2 , and free oxygen: the C 0 2 and O are extremely small 
quantities in comparison with the air, and may be neglected. We therefore 
have: p = p a -\- p s \ where p is the total pressure; p a , the air pressure; and 
p 5 , the steam pressure. 

Now p a and p s vary throughout the condenser from the steam inlet to 
the air-suction branch. At the inlet the air pressure is a small proportion 
of the total pressure, while at the air-pump suction the air pressure is a large 
proportion of the total pressure. These relative pressures of air and steam 
depend on the percentage of air present in the steam entering the condenser. 
At the inlet the air pressure is so very small that it may be neglected, so that, 
if the vacuum or absolute pressure at the inlet is measured, the temperature 
may be taken to be that corresponding to the vacuum. 

We here assume that the entering steam is not superheated, as with the 
modern large turbine the expansion is carried too far for the superheat to 
reach the exhaust. In small turbines, which are sometimes used for driving 



SURFACE CONDENSERS 


*3 


auxiliaries, only single wheels are used. When these are supplied with 
superheated steam the exhaust is generally superheated, so that for these 
cases the above assumption is not true. We shall, however, for the 
present confine ourselves to the large machine. Assuming then that the 
entering steam is not superheated, the temperature and pressure are corre¬ 
sponding and are as given in the steam tables. As the steam flows 
through the condenser it progressively condenses and cools and falls in 
pressure. The air which is carried along with the steam, at the same time 
cools and rises in pressure, so that, as the steam pressure falls, the air pressure 
rises. At any point in the flow, however, the sum of the air and steam 
pressures is always equal to the total pressure which obtains at that point. 
Further, there is a drop i n total pressure from the top to the bottom of th e 



Fig. 6.—Pressure Conditions m Condenser 


condenser due to the initiation of the entering steam velocity. This point, 
however, we shall investigate later. At the bottom of the condenser the steam 
will all have condensed, leaving its vapour at a pressure which corresponds 
to the temperature of the water, and the air pressure will be the difference 
between the total pressure and the vapour pressure. These conditions are 
shown in fig. 6. 

The dots indicate how the air density increases as the steam condenses. 
It should be clearly borne in mind that the air-suction branch in a modern 
surface condenser is taken from the bottom, because the air density is greatest 
there, and the air suction should always be taken from the coldest point. 
An example of the air suction being taken from the top of the condenser Ts 
to be found in some jet condensers, where the steam enters at the bottom 
and the water enters at the top. The water rains down over suitably arranged 
trays, while the steam passes upwards through this rain of falling water. 
The air, naturally, is coldest at the top, and the air suction is therefore taken 
from this point. .The fact of the air density being greatest at the coldest 
point is accentuated by the steam velocity in the condenser, the steam carrying 
the air with it. 










H 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


Example .—In a steam condenser the measured vacuum at the top of the 
condenser was 29 in. of mercury corrected to a 30-in. barometer, and at the 
bottom of the condenser 29-2 in. Hg. The temperature of the condensate 
was 65° F. What was the partial air pressure at the bottom of the condenser? 

From the steam tables we find that the vapour pressure which corresponds 
to 65° F. is 0*304 lb. per square inch absolute, which is equivalent to a vacuum 

of 29*38 in. Hg. . 0 

v J 6 .. p 5 = 3 ° - 29*38 

= 0*62 in. Hg. 

The absolute pressure at the bottom of the condenser 

p = 30 — 29*2 
= o*8 in. Hg. 

Now p = p a + p s , 

.*. p a = 0*8 — 0-62 
= o*i8 in. Hg. 

This can be more simply found by taking the difference between the 
vacuum corresponding to the condensate temperature and the vacuum which 
obtains at bottom of the condenser, 

i.e. p a = 29*38 — 29*2 
= o*i8 in. Hg. 

The pressure drop or vacuum drop across the condenser 

= 29*2 — 29 
= o*2 in. Hg. 

QUANTITY OF COOLING WATER AND POSSIBLE VACUUM 

The vacuum which it is possible to attain depends upon two factors. 

1. The inlet temperature of the cooling water. 

2. The quantity of cooling water passing through the condenser. 

It is usual to design a condenser for what is known as the economical 
vacuum, and this depends upon the condition of the whole installation, e.g. 
the cost of pumping the cooling water, the reduced operating costs consequent 
on the high vacuum and the initial cost of the plant. If the supply of cooling 
water be plentiful and the cooling water system arranged with a siphonic 
action, then it usually pays to design the condenser with a temperature 
difference between the outgoing cooling water and the entering steam of 
about 8° F. This gives a large condenser with high cooling water charges, 
but the reduced steam consumption of the main turbine, consequent on the 
high vacuum, usually warrants the increased cost. On board ship, where 
space is valuable, a smaller condenser is usually installed than would be for 
a land installation. This is not done solely on account of the space taken 
up by the condenser itself, but by the space taken up by the large low-pressure 
turbine. 



SURFACE CONDENSERS 


*5 


The following are typical normal vacua: 

Light craft, e.g. torpedo-boats, 27 in. Hg, sea temperature, 50° F. 
Battle cruisers and battleships, 28! in. Hg. 

Merchant ships, 28J in. Hg. 

Modem land power stations, 29 to 29£ in. Hg (cooling water taken from 
river); 28 to 28J in. Hg (cooling water taken from cooling tower). 

Let V x be the vacuum at the top of the condenser; 

V 2 , the vacuum at the bottom of the condenser; 

t l9 the temperature corresponding to V i; 

l 2 , the temperature of the condensate leaving the condenser; 

T x , the inlet temperature of the cooling water; 

T 2 , the outlet temperature of the cooling water. 


Then the difference between the ingoing steam temperature and the out¬ 
going cooling water __ rfl 


Good average values of this difference for various installations are: 


Land power stations 
Torpedo-boats 
Battleships and cruisers .. 
Merchant vessels (turbines) 
Merchant vessels (reciprocating) . 


.. 8° to 12 ° F. 

.. 40° to 50° F. 
.. 15 0 to 20° F. 
.. 12 0 to 15 0 F. 
.. 25 0 to 30° F. 


The difference between the ingoing steam temperature and the con¬ 
densate temperature (A — ? 2 ) is about 5 0 to 8° F. for condensers for 
turbines, and about io° to 15 0 F. for condensers for reciprocating engines. 
We shall later investigate why there is this difference between turbine and 
reciprocating-engine condensers. 

To find the quantity of cooling water necessary to condense a given 
quantity of steam is a problem of a simple heat exchange. 

The exhaust steam entering a condenser is usually slightly wet, even 
when the steam supplied to the main turbine js highly superheated. The 
steam in condensing gives up its latent heat and the f sensible heat due to 
the cooling of the condensate below the temperature corresponding to the 
vacuum; this latter effect is due to the air which leaks into the condenser. 
The cooling water absorbs the heat given up by the steam, less the heat lost 
by radiation. This loss is a very small quantity and may be neglected. The 
specific heat of the water is usually taken as 1. 

Let G be the quantity of cooling water in gallons per minute; 

W, the weight of steam condensed per hour in pounds; 
q> the dryness fraction of the steam. 

Then the heat given up per hour by the steam in condensing 

= W(^L + ti — 4)* 







16 STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 

The heat absorbed per hour by the cooling water 

= 600 G(T 2 - T x ).(15) 


These two quantities are equal. 

600 G(T 2 — T x ) = W(^L -f- t ± — £ 2 ), 
or G = gall, per minute.(16) 

000 ( 1 2 -1 l) 

For present-day conditions under which steam turbines are operated 
( 7 /L -f- t x — t.>) = 1000 approximately, 

so that very approximately 


G = 


10W 


6(T 2 - T x ) 


(17) 


Example .—In testing a steam condensing plant the following data were 
taken. Find the dryness fraction of the steam entering the condenser. 

Vacuum at top of condenser .. .. . . 28 in. Hg. 


Temperature of condensate 
Inlet temperature of cooling water 
Outlet temperature of cooling water 
Quantity of cooling water 
Quantity of condensate 


92 0 F. 

75° F. 

90° F. 

15,400 gall, per minute. 
. 140,000 lb. per hour. 


The temperature of the steam entering the condenser will be that corre¬ 
sponding to a vacuum of 28 in., which, from the steam tables, is ioi° F., so 

t ^ iat G = 15,400 gall, per minute. 

W = 140,000 lb. per hour. 

T x = 75° F. 

T, = 90° F. 
t x = ioi° F. 
t 2 = 92 0 F. 

L = 1035-1 from the steam tables. 
q is unknown. 


Inserting these values in equation (16) we get 

140,000 (q X 1034-6 + 101 


i5>4 00 


92) 


i.e. 


600 (90 — 75) 
15,400 x 600 X 15 _ 

140,000 _ 9 

1035-1 


990 


1035-1 

= 0-948. 









SURFACE CONDENSERS 17 

v Example .—In considering the design of a certain power station it was 
required to condense 100,000 lb. of exhaust steam per hour. The available 
quantity of circulating water was 8000 gall, per minute, at a temperature of 
6o° F. It was found from consideration of cost that a temperature difference, 
between the entering steam and the outgoing circulating water, of 8° F. 
could be economically allowed. Calculate what the vacuum would be, 
assuming that there were 1000 B.Th.U. of heat to be extracted per pound 
from the steam. 

From equation (17) the outlet temperature of the cooling water will be: 

10 X 100,000 
6(T 2 — 60) ’ 

1,000,000 , . 

r 2 —^— + 60 

6 X 8000 

20*82 + 60 
80*82° F. 

The temperature of the entering steam will therefore be 80*82 + 8 = 
88*82° F., and from the steam tables the vacuum corresponding to this 
temperature is 28*64 in. of mercury. 


8000 = 

* T — 

• • A 2 — 


LOSS OF HEAD DUE TO FRICTION IN CONDENSER TUBES 


The loss of head due to the fluid friction of the cooling water passing 
through the tubes, &c., is a running charge, and should therefore be reduced 
to the minimum consistent with the necessary heat flow across the tube 
walls. 

This friction loss consists of three parts. 

1. The loss due to the tube itself, and known as the tube friction. 

2. The loss at the entry end of the tube, and known as the entrance friction. 

3. The loss in the water boxes due to the reversal of the flows, &c., and 
known as the condenser friction. 

If H be the total head lost, in feet, composed of the parts 
H„ due to tube friction, 

H c , due to entrance friction, 

H c , due to condenser friction, 
then H = H* + H e + H c . 


If G is the quantity of water passing through each tube in gallons per 
minute, / the length of each tube in feet, and D the internal diameter of the 
tubes in inches, then 

H* 


H. 


GH 

3 ( 3 D) 5 

.(18) 

- (°Y . 

. ( 19 ) 

\i 3 D / 


( D 450 ) 


2 





i8 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


If the condenser be of the two-flow type then the total tube friction 
will be 2H*, and the total entrance friction 2H e ; similarly, if the condenser 
be of the three-flow type these friction losses will be 3H ( and 3H e respectively, 
and so on for any number of flows. 

The above formulae are those due to Box, and have been found by the 
author to give results in close agreement with what obtains in actual 
condensers. 

If v be the tube velocity in feet per second, then equation (18) becomes 


and equation (19) becomes 


H, = 0-005724^, 


H e = 0*02469 t if L . 


(20) 

(21) 


In fig. 7 the author has plotted the tube and entrance friction for tube 



TUBE VELOCITY IN FEET PER SECOND 

* 

Fig. 7 .—Friction Head in io ft. Length Condenser Tubes 


velocities varying from 3 to 11 ft. per second, and for tubes of 'f in., f in., 
| in., and 1 in. outside diameter, having a thickness of 18 S.W.G., and 
a length of 10 ft. 

These curves are to facilitate calculation, and are very handy when deter¬ 
mining the friction loss in any condenser. 













SURFACE CONDENSERS 


i9 


It is interesting to note that the entrance friction depends entirely on 
the velocity and is independent of the tube diameter. 

The value of the condenser friction H c depends upon the design of the 


:er boxes and the number of flows or passes. 
Good average values for H c are: 

Feet. Inches. 

For a single-flow conaenser 

I 

0 

For a two-flow condenser 

I 

6 

For a three-flow condenser 

2 

0 

For a four-flow condenser 

2 

6 


Example .—A surface condenser of the three-flow type has 3500 f-in. 
O/D tubes, 18 S.W.G. thick, 9 ft. 6 in. long. The quantity of cooling water 
passing is 6800 gall, per minute. Calculate the total loss in friction head 
from inlet to outlet. 

First find the tube velocity. 


V = of water passing in cubic feet per second 

water area of each pass 


__ 68,000 X 3 X 144 

62*5 X 60 X 3500 X 0-336 
= 6-66 ft. per second. 


ft. per second 


At this velocity the tube friction for a 10-ft. tube is, from (fig. 7), 3-9 ft., 
and for a 9>ft.-6-in. tube it will be 

H = 3*9 X 9-5 
1 10 

= 37 ft - 

From (fig. 7) II ( , = 1-i ft., and for a three-flow condenser 

H, = 2 ft. 

The total loss in friction head then will be 

H = 3 Hj + 3 H e + H c 

= (3 X 37 ) + (3 X I-l) + 2 
= HI +3-3 + 2 
= i6*4ft. 

To reduce the friction loss some makers of condensing plant round off 
the entrance edge of the ferrules^ thereby eliminating the vena contracta 
caused by the square edge of an ordinary ferrule. 

The condition of the inside of the tube has a large effect on the friction 
head, and the rules given above are for reasonably clean tubes. As the 
tubes become coated with scale or muddy deposit the friction head rises, 
and it is common practice at power stations to fit gauges on the inlet and 



20 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


outlet cooling-water branches. When these gauges show a certain difference 
this is taken as an indication that the tubes need to be brushed or sponged 
out. 

The great necessity for keeping the tubes clean in a modern condenser 



Fig. 8 


Table I 


Vacuum, Inches Hg. 

Barometer, 

Inches Hg. 

Vacuum Corrected 
to 30 in Barometer, 
Inches Hg. 

Condensate Tempera¬ 
ture, Degrees F. 

Inlet Temperature 
of Circulating Water, 
Degrees F. 

B. 

A. 

Outlet Tempera¬ 
ture, Degrees F. 

Quantity of Water 
Passing, Lb. Min. 

Tube Velocity, 
Ft./Min. 

Transmission 
Rate, B.Th.U. 

fe 

CO 

8 

bo 

QJ 

Q 

J 

Outlet Tempera¬ 
ture, Degrees F. 

Quantity of Water 
Passing, Lb./Min. 

Tube Velocity, 
Ft. Min. 

Transmission 
Rate. B.Th.U. 

Degrees F. 

28*25 

29*44 

28-8l 

90 

53 

57 

746 

513 

307 

35*0 

62 

1370 

942 

1370 

32*5 

28-15 

29*44 

28-71 

93 

53 

58 

59*7 

410 

286 

37*5 

64 

•989 

680 

1135 

34*5 

281 

29*44 

28-66 

94 

53 

59 

51*6 

354 

293 

38-0 

66 

83 0 

570 

1125 

34*5 

28-02 

29*44 

28*46 

95 

53 

61 

42-0 

290 

3l8 

38-0 

67 

628 

432 

905 

35*0 

277 

29*44 

28-14 

100 

53 

63 

42-0 

290 

360 

42-0 

72 

62-8 

432 

1145 

37*5 


is not so much the increase of friction head caused by the dirty tubes, as the 
effect a slight deposit has on the heat flow from the steam to the water. This 
is readily realized, as the present day mean temperature difference runs so 
low as 12° or 13 0 F., and the increase of even i° in this difference is a large 
percentage of the total. 





SURFACE CONDENSERS 


The curves in fig. 8 show the results of an experiment on heat flow carried 
out by the author with two condenser tubes, one clean and one dhjfy. The 
dirty tube was taken out of the main condenser of the S.S. City Wj Brisbane 
after three voyages to Calcutta and back. These curves show the great 
resistance to heat flow of a thin deposit of scale, and the consequent necessity 
of keeping a condenser clean. 

The heat flow is plotted as ordinates in B.Th.U. per hour per square 
foot of surface per degree Fahrenheit of mean temperature difference. 
This is known as the transmission rate. The tube velocity is plotted as 
abscissae in feet per minute. 

At a tube velocity of 500 ft. per minute the dirty tube allowed 320 B.Th.U. 
to pass, while the clean tube allowed 990 B.Th.U. to pass, nearly three times 
more. 

The increase of friction head of the dirty tube over the clean tube is 
clearly shown by the smaller water quantity which the dirty tube allowed 
to pass. (See Table I.) 

It is needless to state that when this condenser was cleaned the vacuum 
was greatly improved. 

Owing to the difference in the conditions on which land and marine 
condensers have to operate, land condenser tubes have to be cleaned far more 
frequently than the tubes for marine condensers. The marine condenser 
has generally a greater tube velocity than the land condenser, and has not to 
operate with such muddy or oily water; the greater tube velocity tends to 
scour the tubes clean. 

The deposit which is usually found in a marine condenser tube is a hard 
salt scale from the sea water, while that found in a land condenser tube is 
generally a soft deposit of mud and oil. This salt scale found in marine 
condenser tubes is not wholly due to the normal conditions of operation, as 
the cooling water temperature is far too low to produce the hard scale which 
is found; the scale is rather due to the heating up conditions of the main 
turbines. It is the practice with some marine engineers to heat up the 
main turbines with a low vacuum of 5 or 6 in. Hg in the condenser, 
this results in the condensers becoming very hot, so that the conditions 
become favourable for scaling. 


TUBE CLEANING APPARATUS 

Various devices have been invented to facilitate the cleaning of the tubes 
of surface condensers, and thereby reduce the losses due to the length of 
time the plant is shut down, as well as the expense associated with mechanical 
methods. 

One of the most efficient devices for rapidly and thoroughly cleaning con¬ 
denser tubes is the Mirrlees tube cleaning apparatus for surface condensers. 
This device is illustrated in fig. 9 and 10. The principle of operation is 
that a cleansing solution is caused to circulate through the tubes by the action 



STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 



Fig. g .—Surface Condenser Equipped with Tube Cleaning Apparatus—Duplex Type 


of a steam jet ejector, which heats up the solution so that any scale, grease, 
or muddy deposit is quickly and thoroughly removed. 

When the deposit is of a greasy or muddy nature the makers recommend 



Fig. 10 


a caustic-soda solution of i per cent, which may be gradually increased to 
7 per cent, depending on the nature of the deposit. 

When the deposit is in the form of a hard scale, a 5 per cent solution of 


SURFACE CONDENSERS 2 % 

hydrochloric acid is recommended, which may be increased in very bad 
cases to a 40 per cent solution. 

Referring now to fig. 10, which shows the apparatus fitted to the end 
door of a surface condenser; A is the steam jet; B, a funnel for the intro¬ 
duction of the cleansing agent; C, D, and E are shut off cocks; G, a bell- 
mouth inlet orifice; and F is a perforated discharge cone. 

The method of operation is as follows: 

The inlet- and outlet-water valves on the main circulating system are 
closed, and the air cocks on the water boxes are opened. The condenser 
is then almost filled with a known quantity of clean water, and the air cocks 
closed. The cocks D and E are then opened and steam is turned on to the 
ejector A; this causes a circulation to take place through the tubes and water 
boxes; the water entering the orifice G, and passing down through the ap¬ 
paratus, is discharged through the discharge cone F by the action of the 
steam ejector. The water during the circulation is heated by the steam from 
the ejector. When the circulation is thus established, a known quantity of 
the cleansing agent is poured into the funnel B, this quantity being sufficient 
to give a solution of the required strength; the cock C is then opened and the 
cleansing agent is drawn into the apparatus, and mixed with the hot water 
circulating in the condenser. 

The makers recommend that the cleaning operation should be continued 
for at least six to eight hours, and that the solution should be maintained at 
the proper strength by more cleansing agent being added from time to time; 
also, that the temperature of the solution in circulation should not be allowed 
to go over 150° F., but should be kept under this maximum by occasionally 
shutting down the ejector. 

When the cleaning operation is finished the solution should be drained 
off or pumped out. The condenser should be thoroughly washed out with 
clean water when caustic soda has been used as a cleanser, and with an alkaline 
solution when hydrochloric acid has been used. Any acid which may be 
left is soon neutralized by the action of the scale-producing impurities in the 
circulating water. 


CRITICAL VELOCITY IN TUBES 

On p. 9 attention was drawn to the necessity of having the velocity 
over the critical, to ensure a rapid transference of heat from the tube wall 
to the cooling water, and it was there stated that under the critical velocity 
the water flows through the tubes in stream lines or in non-turbulent flow, 
and that over the critical velocity the flow is turbulent. 

These two modes of flow were demonstrated by Professor Osborne 
Reynolds, and he also worked out formulae so that the critical velocity could 
be determined for any given conditions. He further showed that at a velocity 
lower than the critical the law of friction head was 


h <x v 3 



24 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


where v is the tube velocity, and that at velocities over the critical the law 
was 

h oc v n , 

where n = 1*722. 

The previous rules given for the friction head in a condenser are for 
velocities over the critical. 

The formula deduced by Reynolds from his experiments for the 
critical velocity is 

s ' 1 ')•.< 22 > 

where v c is the critical velocity in feet per second; 
b is the numerical constant = 4*06; 

P is Poiseuille’s value for vls C QSl t ^ of the water flowing through 
the tube; densit y 

d is the internal diameter of the tube in feet. 

There are two critical velocities, a high velocity and a low velocity, and 
between these the motion is unstable. In condenser work it is only necessary 
to know the higher one, since it is essential that the velocity should never 
under any conditions fall below this. The above equation gives this higher 
value. 

Now the value of P depends upon the temperature of the cooling water, 
and, since v c is higher for cold water than it is for hot water, the inlet tem¬ 
perature of cooling water should be taken. 

The value of P is given by the equation 

P — .. 

i + 0'0336T + o*ooo22iT 2 ’ . ** 

where T is the inlet water temperature in degrees Centigrade. 

The following table gives values of P for corresponding values of T 
for the usual temperatures met with in practice. 


Values of T and P 


T°F. 

32 

35 

40 

45 

50 

55 

60 

65 

70 

75 

80 

P 

1 

0*945 

0*866 

0*796 

0735 

o*68i 

0*636 

0596 

0-558 

0*521 

0*488 


Should the reader desire more detailed information on this question 
of critical velocity he should consult a standard work on hydraulics. 

The effect of this sudden change of mode of heat flow across a condenser 
tube can be very clearly demonstrated by a simple experiment with a con- 






SURFACE CONDENSERS 


25 


denser. If a thermometer placed in the outlet be carefully watched, and 
the tube velocity gradually increased, the temperature rise will at first be 
extremely slow, but immediately a certain velocity is reached a sudden 
jump of 4 0 or 5 0 will be seen on the thermometer. 

Example .—Find the lowest permissible tube velocity in a surface con¬ 
denser having f-in. O/D tubes, 18 S.W.G. thick, and having an inlet water 
temperature of 6o° F. 

From equation (22), p. 24. 



^ _ 0*625 ~ 0*048 X 2 
12 

= ft. 

12 

b = 4*06, 

and P = 0*636. 

12 X 0*636 

v c = —--— 

4*06 X 0*529 

= 3*55 ft. per second. 

This is the higher critical tube velocity, and is, therefore, the lowest 
permissible tube velocity for the efficient transference of heat. 

The normal tube velocity in condensers is, of course, much higher than 
the critical velocity, but occasions do arise in which it is desirable to know 
what the critical velocity is. An example of this is to be found in the case 
of torpedo-boat destroyers. The condensers for these ships are designed 
with a very high tube velocity at full power, and a vacuum of about 27 in. 
to give as small and light a condenser as possible. For economy’s sake these 
ships always cruise at reduced speeds, and the circulating pumps are there¬ 
fore slowed down. 

In the design of a condenser for a torpedo-boat destroyer the critical 
velocity should, therefore, be found and checked with the cruising con¬ 
ditions, so that the designed vacuum may be maintained without unduly 
cooling the condensate. 


PRESSURE DROP OR VACUUM LOSS IN STEAM 

SPACE 

In any steam condenser there is always a pressure drop on the steam 
side between the steam inlet and the air and vapour outlet. This drop 
is caused by the initiation of the velocity of the steam entering the con¬ 
denser, and has a direct relation with the velocity and the density of the 
entering steam This drop is a direct loss in vacuum, and should be reduced 




26 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


to the minimum. It is becoming common practice for condenser makers 
to specify this drop for their condensers. 

Let the following diagram, fig. n, represent a condenser. 



Let S be the density of the entering steam in pounds per cubic foot;* 
v s , the steam velocity past the first row of tubes in feet per second; 
g , the acceleration due to gravity in feet per second per second; 
p x , absolute pressure at inlet; 
p 2 , absolute pressure at outlet; 
d , the pressure drop in inches of mercury; 
and h , the steam head in feet to initiate the velocity v t . 


Then 


S X h = 


Now 


h = 


Again 


.*. 8x* 
Pl-P 2 


By substitution 


147 


8x^ 

2 g 


or 


V' = 


p x ~~ p 2 lb. per square foot 
i44(P 1 — P 2 ) lb. per square inch. 

144^ — P 2 ) lb. per square inch. 

d 

29*992* 


d X 147 X 144 
29*992 


l 2g X 147 X 144 
^ 29*992 


X 



, Id 

6 7-2\g. 


The above expression must be multiplied by a factor K, which depends 
on the depth of the penetration of the steam into the tube banks. This factor 
K will naturally vary with the design of and the method of tube spacing 
in the condenser, and varies from o-2 to 0-5. A good average value which 
agrees well with actual test figures is 0-314. 




SURFACE CONDENSERS 


27 


Taking this value for K we get 

v s = 67- 2 Ka/^ 

= 0-314 X 67-2^1 



This equation enables us to estimate the pressure drop from a known 
entering steam velocity and vacuum. The density 8 is the density corre¬ 
sponding to the vacuum at the top of the condenser, and can be found from 
the steam tables. 

For given pressure drops the author has plotted the curves given in 
fig. 12, and these agree approximately with values obtained from actual 
condensers. 

These curves show that for the same pressure drop a much higher enter¬ 
ing steam velocity can be allowed for high vacua than for low vacua; this, 
of course, is due to the great decrease in density at the high vacua. 

When giving guarantees of a condenser it is usual to give performance 
curves at varying vacua and inlet water temperatures, and in any design care 
should be taken to check the pressure drop at the highest guaranteed vacuum, 
because for a constant steam quantity the greatest drop obtains at the highest 
vacuum. 

This can be proved from equation (24). 



(25) 


Now if the steam quantity Q be constant and the entrance area A is con¬ 
stant, we have 




Q 

A X S' 


Then, substituting this value of v in (25), we get 



The drop therefore varies inversely as the density, so that the maximum 
drop is obtained at the minimum density, th#t is, at the highest vacuum. 





28 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


To keep down the pressure drop the long axis of standard 6o° tube 
pitching should be placed horizontally, as in this position the entrance 
area for the steam is greater than when the long axis is placed vertically; 



Fig. 12 .—Relation between Pressure Drop, Vacuum, and Steam Velocity past First Row of Tubes 


that is, the pitching should be placed as shown at (a) fig. n. This helps 
to keep the condenser a reasonable breadth. This is particularly convenient 
with the modem underhung condenser, where the available breadth is limited 
by the foundations or seatings 0 / the main turbine. 










SURFACE CONDENSERS 


29 


VARIATION IN THE RATE OF CONDENSATION 
THROUGHOUT A SURFACE CONDENSER 

For the purpose of this investigation take a two-flow condenser as shown 
in fig. 13. 

The temperatures and vacua stated above are those obtained from an 
actual condenser. 

Consider the points A, B, C, and D. The temperature differences at the 

four points are: . . . . , 0 „ 

v at point A, 79 — 67 = 12 0 F. 

„ B, 79 — 58 = 21 0 F. 

»» C, 71 — 58 = 13 0 F. 

.» D, 7 1 ~ 5° = 2I ° F - 

The condensation rates at the same four points vary according to equa¬ 
tion (13), p. 9 

W = --- 

R* + 

Now R a varies considerably from the top to the bottom, depending on 
the air richness of the steam. 

At the top the percentage of 
air to steam is very small, and 
the value may be taken as that 
given on p. 10, namely, 0-48; 
while at the bottom the per¬ 
centage is very high, and the 
value of R a may go as high 
as 4. The values given on 
p. 10 are average working values 
for the whole condenser. 

The condenser under con¬ 
sideration had a very efficient air pump, so that the condensate temperature 
was maintained close to the temperature corresponding to the vacuum. 
In this case, therefore, the value of R a may be taken as 1-4. 

At the points A, B, C, and D the values of w become: 

__ 12 

0*48 + 0*08 + R^’ 

C (equation 14, p. 9; the outside diameter 

— ^0 82 of tube is f in.) 

= TOS 

6 082 

— 07. 

12 

1-26 

9*5 lb. per square foot. 


at point A 
and 



to = 



30 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


Similarly at B, w — - = 17-2 lb. per square foot. 

1 *22 

„ C, w — - 3 — = 5-8 lb. per square foot. 

2*24 

t~\ 21 

„ D, W — - 

1*4 + 0*08 + 0*91 

= 8*8 lb. per square foot. 

If the above process be applied to the points E, F, G, and H, the points 
E and F being on the top flow and the points G and H being on the bottom 
flow, it will be found that there is a big difference between w at E and zv at 
H, and that zv at F and G will be the same. ' 

The author has worked these out and plotted, in fig. 14, the values of 
w at the points marked. The values at intermediate points are indicated 



0 5 10 15 20 

CONDENSATION (W) IN LB.PER SQ.FT 


Fig. 14.—Variation in Rate of Condensation throughout Surface Condenser 

roughly by the curves. These show the great variation in condensation rate 
which takes place in a surface condenser. The full line curve is for the water- 
box end, and the dotted line curve is for the return end. The maximum 
variation is from 17*2 to 3-17, or a variation of over 400 per cent. 

In all the rules given above, w signifies the average condensation rate 
throughout the condenser. 
















































SURFACE CONDENSERS 




SHAPE OF CONDENSERS FOR CONSTANT STEAM VELOCITY 


Many condensers are designed to give an approximately constant velocity 
to the steam during its passage through the condenser; that is, the flow area 
is reduced as the steam condenses. 

The main reason for maintaining the steam velocity is to ensure that 
the tubes at the bottom are steam swept as well as those at the top, so that 
the air blanket, which collects as the steam condenses, is brushed off the 
tubes and the whole surface is rendered effective for the condensation of 
steam, which, of course, is the function of a steam condenser. A well-designed 
condenser should have no stagnant zones wherein air may collect. 

Probably the clearest method of showing the proper shape of a condenser 
is to work out a concrete example. 

Let us take the condenser shown in fig. 13. This condenser is to condense 
172,300 lb. of steam per hour at a vacuum of 29 in. Hg, with cooling water 
at the inlet of 50° F. The temperature rise in the cooling water is 17 0 F., 
so that the mean temperature difference will be 


m f e 

2*3 log w -■ 

“2, 

21 —12 

~ 2-3 X log 10 x-75 
= 9 

2-3 X 0-243 
= i6-i°F. 


Taking R a = 1*05 and v = 6 ft. per second and f-in. O/D tubes, and 



C 

2,082 

6° 82 
o*8o; 


then 


16*1 

. 1*05 + 0-08 + o*8o 
_ i6*i 
~ I# 93 

= 8-34 lb. per square foot. 


The total condensing surface therefore will be 


S = I 7 2 >3°° 

8-34 

= 20,700 sq. ft. 



32 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


Again, assuming that each pound of steam entering the condenser has 
1000 B.Th.U. extracted from it in condensing, we get the total quantity of 
cooling water flowing through the tubes from equation (17) to be 

G - IoW 
6(T 2 - T x ) 

10 X 172,300 

6 X 17 

= 16,900 gall, per minute. 


Let n be number of tubes per flo^, and A the cross-sectional area of the 
tube in square inches, then 

n x A x v G 


*44 

i.e. n 


60 X 6*25’ 

16,900 X 144 
0*336 X 6 X 60 X 6-25 
= 3220 tubes. 


To find the length l between the tube plates we have: 

zttDIu 


i.e. 


S - 
l = 


12 

12S 

ZttDti 


where S is the tube surface and D the outside diameter of the tube in 
inches, 

i e l = 12 X 20,700 X 4 

7T X 3 X 2 X 3220 
= i6*4ft. 

We have thus all the condenser particulars except the number of tubes 
in each row. It is this number which determines the shape of the condenser. 

Let P be the pitch of the tubes in inches; 

D, the external diameter of the tubes in inches; 

N, the number of tubes per row; 

C 0 , the total condensation; 

W x , W 2 , &c., the condensation in 1st, 2nd, &c., rows respectively, 
counting from the steam inlet; 

S x , S 2 , &c., the tube surface in 1st, 2nd, &c., rows respectively; 
a , the volume in cubic feet passing any row; 

V, the specific volume in cubic feet of the steam at any row; 
v sy the steam velocity in feet per second; and 
zv ly w 2 , &c., the condensation per square foot at the 1st, 2nd, &c., 
rows, respectively. 




SURFACE CONDENSERS 


33 


Now the volume a of steam which passes the nth row per second 

= |~ (P ~ D)(N, + i) j /; 

but, since the volume of steam passing the nth row per second must be 
equal to the total volume of steam condensed per second below the nth row, 
this volume ^ ^ 

3600^ 


r(p-D)(N„+i)i 

/= 

rc - 
L 0 t 2 

fw 1+ w 2 . 

2 2 ) 

>+•■•+< 

fW,. 4 W H \ 
2 2 ) 

»}] 

L 12 


3600^ 




Now W x = w 1 Su and W 2 = &> 2 S 2 , &c. 
. j- (P-D)(N.+ i) j 7 


C — 

. j 



1 2 

1 N 


3600^ 


* (26) 


From this general equation the number of tubes in each row can be de¬ 
termined. The number of tubes in the first row is given by 

\c -g&lv 

rp — d)(Ni + in l = L 0 2 J . 

L 12 J 3600^ 


for the second row: 


c -/“’l 8 ! _|_ / W 1 S 1 

r p - d)(n 2 +1) -| l = 0 1 2 

L 12 J 3600^ 


+ W 2 S 2 
2 


■)}>. 


and so on for each row. _ 

The values of zv l9 w 2 , &c., have to be fo^dTndependently from the 
6 m at the row and the value of R a . 

As was stated on pp. 11 and 29, R a varies considerably from top to 
bottom of the condenser, and may be taken as 0*48 for the top row and 
progressively increased to 3 for the bottom few rows. 

The above is the general equation, and for any specific condenser it 
simplifies the calculation to gather the fixed values into a constant thus: 

77 D/N 1 


S x = 


12 


= 77 x 3 X 16-4 X Ni 
4 X 12 

= 3 ’ 22 N i, 

S„ = 3-22N n . 


( D 450 ) 


and 


3 




34 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


We have, therefore, by substitution in equation (26) and taking 
P = ij in., D = J in., and v s = 200 ft. per second, which velocity 
gives a reasonable pressure drop (see fig. 12): 

(1-25—0-75) (N n -f 1) 16-4 
12 

_ [Cq— [^iN 1 -h(w 1 N 1 -j-g^2^ s l2)~l~ ««♦ -f~ (zVn— iNh-I H~^wNn)}3*22/2]V 

3600 X 200 

i e N w = «•.+ iN«—i + ^wNw)ji , 6i]V _^ 

490,000 


For the first row, where the vacuum is 29 in. and V == 657, we have: 


and 

where 

and 


= i6-i° F. (see p. 31), 

0 _ 

w x = 


R, = 

K = 


R a + Rj + R w 
0-48, 

c _ 

(tube velocity) 0 82 


C, for f-in. tubes and a mean temperature of = 62-5 is, 

from fig. 5, 3-27; and the tube velocity was stated on p. 31 as 6 ft. per 
second. 

• r, = 3 : 2 7 

= 3‘ 2 7 
4*34 

= °* 753 - 


Then 


w 1 


16-1 


0-48 + 0-08 + 0-753 
= 12-25 lb. per square foot. 

by substitution in equation (27) we get 

N = [172,300 ~ 12-25^ X i» 6 i ]657 __ i 


= 231 - 
_ 230 


490,000 
0-026N! — I 


1-026 

= 224 tubes in first row. 


For the second row 8 m will be substantially the same, and, putting R a 
0-5, we get 

16 1 

w 2 = --- 

0-5 + 0-08 + 0-753 

= 12-08 lb. per square foot. 



SURFACE CONDENSERS 


35 


Then N = t I 7 2 > 3 ° 0 ~ { 12 ~ 2 5 X 224+ 12-25 X 224 + i2-o5N 2 fi-6i]657 _ x 
2 490,000 

= 231 — 11*85 ~ o- 026N 2 — 1 
= 213 tubes in second row. 

For the third row 9 m will again be substantially the same, and, putting 
R<! = 0-52, we get 


5 0-52 + o*o8 + 0753 

= 11*9 lb. per square foot. 

Then 

N =2-11- u-8c - [( I 2 '° 5 N 2 -r I2-Q5N 2 + 11-85^} 1-613657 _ j 
3 ^ ^ 490,000 
= 231 — 11*85 — n*o8 — o*256N 3 — 1 
207 
1*026 

= 202 tubes in third row. 

N, = 2 ,, - 11-8; - 1, 08 - 

490,000 

By continuing this process from top to bottom of the condenser the 
number of tubes in each row can be found This the author has done, and 
the result is shown in fig. 15. This is the theoretically correct shape at 
the mid section for constant steam velocity, and a constant pitch of tubes. 
The sections at the ends would be different from the mid section due to 
the difference of mean temperature difference. Such a condenser would, 
of course, be impossible, as the tubes could not be accommodated at the 
narrow end section. 

The extreme breadth of the steam entrance should be noted, and the 
problem of allowing sufficient area between the tubes for the entering steam 
is one of the difficulties of good modern condenser design. This difficulty 
has become very real recently, due to the present-day search after economy 
and the reduction or elimination of all losses. 

As stated on p. 25, the pressure drop is a direct loss and should be re¬ 
duced to a minimum, so that the steam velocity must be kept down by 
allowing sufficient entrance area; this is not always easily accomplished 
because of the limited space under a modem turbine. 

The difficulty of the very wide entrance can be got over by varying the 
pitch of the tubes from top to bottom. That is, the tubes can be widely 
spaced at the top, and the pitch reduced in steps till normal pitching is 
reached. Such a condenser is shown in fig. 16. 

Some condenser makers get over the difficulty by arranging lanes in 
the top-tube nest, so that the steam velocity past the first row is reasonable 

without the condenser being unduly broad* 

In all modem condensers it will generally be found that the highest 



3 6 STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 

steam velocity is that past the first row, or in other words the steam is 
throttled through the first row, and in consequence of this the pressure 
drop is mainly in the top nest of tubes; if the experiment be tried of fitting 
three mercury columns to the steam space of a condenser—one at the top, 



Fig. is Fig. 16 


one half-way down, and one at the bottom—it will be found that quite four- 
fifths of the total pressure drop or loss of vacuum is across the top nest. 
This is because of the above throttling action through the first row of 
tubes. For practical work it is therefore generally sufficient to ensure that 
the steam velocity past the first row of tubes is not excessive, and to neglect 
the velocity at any lower row. 



SURFACE CONDENSERS 


37 


MASS OF AIR AND VAPOUR TO BE WITHDRAWN FROM 
A CONDENSER TO MAINTAIN A GIVEN VACUUM 

The mass of air and vapour to be withdrawn from a condenser depends 
upon two factors: 

1. The mass of air which leaks into the vacuum system. 

2. The mass of air which comes over with the steam. 

The first of these factors depends mainly upon workmanship, and can, 
with care taken in the design and making of the vacuum joints, be reduced 
to a small figure. 

The second depends upon the treatment the feed water receives before 
it enters the boiler. This air enters the boiler as entrained air in the feed 
water and is a relatively small quantity. It is usual to make an overall air 
allowance which is the sum of the above two quantities. 

The British Electrical and Allied Manufactures Association have drawn 
up a standard for land surface condensing plants, and the rule given by them 
is as follows: 

If W is the total weight of steam condensed in pounds per hour, 
and m the mass of air to be withdrawn in pounds per hour, 

then m = ° + 3 lb. per hour. 

1000 

This air quantity is not to be regarded as the actual air leakage in the 
vacuum system, but is only an allowance for general work. The author 
has found that it is generally possible in an actual plant to reduce this leak¬ 
age to about half the above quantity. In this connection the author has 
found large differences with various makes of turbine; this can be accounted 
for by the designs of the L.P. gland of the different makers. 

Some designs seem to be quite leak proof, while others need to have 
a good blow of steam coming from the gland to seal them effectively. 
The water sealed gland is quite effective, and is generally only found in 
land turbines. Marine turbines have steam sealed glands which are quite 
effective. 

Let m 1 be the mass of air leaking into the vacuum system in pounds 
per hour; 

m 2i the mass of air coming over with the steam in pounds per hour; 

then m = m 1 m 2 . 

Let t be the temperature of air and vapour leaving the condenser, 
degrees F.; 

p S y the vapour pressure in inches of mercury absolute; 
p ay the air pressure in inches of mercury absolute; and 
p } the total absolute pressure of air and vapour in inches of mercury; 
then, by Dalton's law of partial pressures, we have 

P = Pa +Pr 



38 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


Now, as was explained on pp. 12-14, the partial air pressure p a can always 
be found if t is known; then knowing p a we can, by Charles’s law, find the 
specific volume of the air at temperature t. 

We know that 1 lb. of dry air at 32 0 F. occupies a volume of 12-39 c - ft., 
and by Charles’s law 


or 


PV 

T 

V. 


constant, 


30 in. X 12-39 


459-6 + 32 
30 x 12-39(459-6 + t) 


Pa{ 459' 6 + 32 ) 


_PaYa 

459-6 -f ? 

.(28) 


Knowing then the partial air pressure p a , the specific volume V a can be 
found from the above expression. 

Again, we know, from the theory of a mixture of gases, that each gas 
or vapour occupies the same volume and exerts its own pressure, so that 
the vapour which is associated with this air will occupy a volume Y a and 
exert its own pressure p s . 

Now from the steam tables we find that the specific volume of the vapour 
at pressure p s is V„ so that the mass of vapour which occupies a volume 


V* will be 


v 

v lb - 

y s 


V„ 


Again, since i lb. of air occupies the volume V a , and — lb. of vapour 

* * 

occupies the same volume, the total mass of mixture occupying the volume 
V 

V a will be 1 + ~ lb., so that the total mass M of mixture to be withdrawn 

' s 

from the condenser per hour to maintain the absolute pressure p is 


M = m 


(■+» 


•(29) 


Example .—A surface condenser is to condense 202,000 lb. of steam 
per hour and is to maintain a vacuum at the bottom of the condenser of 
28-25 in. mercury. The temperature of the air and vapour leaving the con¬ 
denser is estimated to be 82° F. Find the mass of air and vapour the air 
pump must be designed to deal with. The dry air allowance is 


m 


_ o- 5 W 


3 lb. per hour. 


1000 
o-c X 202,000 , 

= —-1-3 

1000. 

= 104 lb. per hour. 


From the steam tables we find that p s = i-x in., so that 

Pa ~ P Ps 

= (30 — 28-25) — I-I 
= 0-65 in. of mercury absolute. 







SURFACE CONDENSERS 


39 


Now y a = 30 X 12-39(459-6 + 82) 

0-65(459-6 + 32) 

_ 30 x 12*39 x 541-6 
0*65 X 491*6 

= 630 c. ft. per pound of air. 

Again, from the steam tables we find that the specific volume of vapour 
at 82° F. is 598*7, i.e. V, = 598*7 c. ft. per pound. 



= 104 X 2*052 
= 214 lb. per hour. 


Example .—Find the mass of vapour which is associated with 1 lb. of air 
at a temperature of 70° F. and an absolute pressure of 0*79 in. of mercury. 
From the steam tables p s = 0*74 in. of mercury. 

NOW Pa = P —P, 

= 0-79 - 0-74 
= 0*05 in. of mercury, 
y = 30 X 12-39(459-6 + 70) 
o-° 5 ( 459-6 + 32) 

= 3° X 12-39 X 529-6 
0*05 x 491-6 

= 8000 c. ft. per pound of air. 

Again, from the steam tables V, = 871 c. ft. per pound. 



= 1 + 9-19 

= 10*19 lb. per pound of air. 


To facilitate calculations of this sort the author has prepared the graphs 
shown on fig. 17. A study of these graphs shows the rapid increase in 
the weight of mixture to be removed as the temperature approaches that 
corresponding to the vacuum; when the temperature and vacuum are 
corresponding the curves go to infinity, so that, unless a cooling compart¬ 
ment be fitted to the condenser, it is impossible to maintain a vacuum 
corresponding to the condensate temperature if there be the smallest 



40 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 



TEMPERATURE IN °F. 

Fig. 17 .—Relation between Weight, Vacuum, and Temperature of Air and Vapour 






















SURFACE CONDENSERS 


4i 


quantity of air present, as inevitably there must be. For this reason and 
to reduce the size of the air pumping plant, modem condensers for turbines 
are always fitted with an air cooler. 

* AIR COOLER FITTED TO SURFACE CONDENSER 

The air cooler fitted to the modern surface condenser for turbines is 
usually formed integral with the condenser itself by fitting a baffle plate over 
a portion of the tube surface, and taking the dry-suction branch from the 
top of the cooler thus formed. When fitting such a cooler care should be 
taken that a good joint is formed between the baffle plate, tube plates, and 
the tube-supporting or diaphragm plates, as otherwise the air-cooling effect 
will be destroyed by leakage. To get the maximum air-cooling effect the 
air and vapour must pass under the lower edge of the baffle plate, and flow 
upwards through the cooler to the dry-suction outlet. The dry-suction 
branch should not be fitted immediately under the top of the baffle plate, 
but two or three rows of tubes should be arranged between the top of the 
baffle and the dry-suction branch. This is to minimize the heating effect 
of the hot vapour, on the condensing side of the baffle, on the air which has 
already been cooled in the cooler. In other words, the air which has been 
cooled should be protected from being reheated by coming into contact with 
the relatively hot baffle plate. A dry-suction branch should be fitted between 
each diaphragm plate and the branches connected externally by a breeches 
pipe, or alternatively, a few tubes can be left out opposite each branch and a 
hole cut in each diaphragm plate where the tubes have been left out. By 
this means each cooler compartment does its share of the work of air cooling. 
A good example of a modern integral air cooler is shown in fig. 16. 

Some recent condensers built in the United States have been fitted with 
external air coolers; these coolers have cast-iron tubes with fins cast on to 
give a large cooling surface in contact with the air. 

The integral air cooler has the advantage that no special cold-water 
connections are necessary, and generally gives a much neater arrange¬ 
ment. 

Let fig. 18 represent an integral air cooler. 

Let p x be the absolute pressure at inlet; 
t u the temperature at inlet; 
p 2y the absolute pressure at outlet; and 
t 2 > the temperature at outlet. 

Then the partial air pressure at inlet will be 


Pla = Pi- Pu> .( 30 ) 

and at outlet it will be 

h.= Pz-Pzs .( 3 1 ) 


If V la be the air volume at inlet, the air volume at outlet, and V u 





42 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


and Vfc the specific volume at inlet and outlet respectively, then the mass 
of vapour condensed out by the coo'er is: 

= . (32) 

Here m is, as before, the mass of the air, V la and V 2a can be found from 
equation (28), when p la and p 2a are found from equations (30) and (31), and 
V ls and can be read off the steam tables. 

Now the heat given up by the condensation of this vapour plus the heat 



given up by the cooling of the air is the total heat transference across the 
cooling surface of the tubes. 

If L be the latent heat of the vapour at pressure p ls > and y the specific 
heat of the air = 0-2375, we S et that the heat transference H across the tube 
surface in B.Th.U. per hour is 

H = M 5 L + my(t$ — 1 1) 

= + .<M> 

As already proved (p. i6), the heat taken up by the cooling water is 

H = 6 ooG(T 2 - Tj). 

But this quantity of heat is the heat transference across the tubes. 

••• 6ooG(T 2 - T x ) = m [L + yih - f 2 )].(34) 

From this equation the outlet temperature of the cooling water T 2 can 
be found, since all the other quantities are known, and knowing T 2 we can 
find the mean temperature difference d m in the cooler. 







SURFACE CONDENSERS 


43 


0 m will then be 

*. ’ (See p. 45.) 

2-3 X log,. 1 -^ 

\h ~~ 1 2) 


Again, from equation (13) (p. 9) we have 


w — -- 


+ R* + R/ 4 - R a * 

or summing R f and R a as before and calling the sum R a we have 

w = 


ft. 


R w r R* + R a 


Knowing the values of the resistances R w , R ty and R a for cooler conditions, 
we can therefore determine the condensation per square foot of surface, 
and since the total condensation M s can be determined from equation (32) 
the condensing surface S c can be found, i.e. 


_«._■(%:-|f) (R - +R ‘ +R - ) 


w 


•(35) 


For cooler conditions the practical working values of the resistances 

Ra = 3 t0 4 . 

R t = 0-08 (as before), 

is found from fig. 5 (as before). 


Example .—A surface condenser is supplied with cooling water at 8o° F.; 
the tube velocity is 5*5 ft. per second, and the air leaking into the vacuum 
system is 40 lb. per hour; the temperature of the condensate leaving the 
condenser is 96° F. Find the surface necessary in the air cooler to ensure 
that the air and vapour passing to the air ejector has a temperature of not 
more than 87° F. The vacuum to be maintained at the bottom of the con¬ 
denser is 28*25 ^ n - There are three hundred f-in. O/D tubes in the cooler. 

At the inlet to the cooler 


Pla Pi Pis 

= (30 — 28*25) — 1*7 (from steam tables) 

= I *75 ~ 17 

= 0*05 in. Hg. 

At the outlet from the cooler we have (assuming there is no sensible loss 
in vacuum across the cooler) 

Pla ~ Pi ~ Pis 
= J 75 ~ 1*29 
= 0*46 in. Hg. 




44 STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 

From equation (28) (p. 38) we have: 

Vi a = L3° X 12-39(459-6 + 9 6 )]/[°-° 5 ( 459 - 6 + 32)] 

= (3° X 12-39 X 555‘6)/(°‘°5 X 491-6) 

= 8400 c. ft. per pound of air, 
and V ls = 393*4 c. ft. per pound (from steam tables). 

At outlet of cooler V 2a = [30 x 12-39(459-6 + 87)]/[o*46(459-6 + 3 2 )] 

= (3° X 12-39 X 546-6)/(o-46 x 491-6) 

= 898 c. ft. per pound of air, 
and V 2s — 5 I 3*7 c - ft- P er pound (from steam tables). 

Now the quantity of cooling water G flowing through the cooler is given 

b y 

G = (ANz; X 60 X 6*25)/i44 gall, per minute, 

where A is area of each tube in square inches, N the number of tubes, and 
v the velocity through the tubes in feet per second, 

i.e. G = (0*336 x 300 X 5*5 X 60 x 6*25)/i44 
= 1444 gall, per minute. 

By equation (34) (p. 42), we find T 2 . 

600 X i444(T 2 — 80) 

= 4°[i° 38-9(84 00 /393'4 - 898/513-7) + 0-2375(96 - 87)]; 
866,4oo(T 2 — 80) — 4 o[io38-9 x 19-6 -f- 2-138]; 

T 2 = 0-94 + 80 
= 80-94° F. 

Then = [(96 — 80) — (87 — 80-94)] /O3 x log( 16/6-o6)J 

= 9 - 94/(2'3 X 0-4216) 

= 10-25° F. 

From equation (35) (p. 43) we get the necessary surface. 

Now R„ = C/t>° 82 , 

where C is the constant obtained from fig. 5 at the mean temperature of 
the cooling water, say, 8o° F., and using f-in. 0 /D tubes, 

i.e. R w = 2-75/5*5° 82 
= o-68. 

Putting R a = 3, and R t = 0-08, we get 

S c = [40(8400/393-4 - 898/513-7) (o-68 + 0-08 + 3)]/io-25 
= ( 4 ° X 19-6 x 3-76 )/io- 25 
= 289 sq. ft. 



SURFACE CONDENSERS 


45 


Example .—During the trial trip of a merchant ship the following figures 
were taken from the main condenser: 


Sea temperature .. .. .. .. 50° F. 

Condensate temperature .. .. .. 70° F. 

Vacuum at bottom of condenser .. .. 29*1 in. Hg. 

Vacuum at top of condenser .. .. 28*8 in. Hg. 

The air being dealt with by the air pump was measured to be 38 lb. 
per hour. The outlet temperature of the air and vapour leaving the air 
cooler was 55 0 F. 

Find the total mass of air and vapour being dealt with by the air pump, 
and the ratio of the mass of air and vapour entering the cooler to the mass 
of air and vapour leaving the cooler; also find the mass of vapour condensed 
out by the cooler. 

Now p la = p x - p ls 

= (30 - 29-1) - 0739 
= 0*161 in. Hg; 

Pia = (30 - 29-1) - 0-4375 
= 0-4643 in. Hg; 

V,. = [30 X 12-39(459-6 + 70)]/[o-161(459-6 + 32)] 

= 2487 c. ft. per pound of air; 
and V lf = 871 c. ft. per pound; 

v 2a = [30 X 12-39(459-6 + 55)]/[°-4 6 43(459-6 + 3 2 )] 

= 840 c. ft. per pound of air; 
and V 2 * = 1430 c. ft. per pound. 


From equation (29) (p. 38) we know that the total mass of air and vapour 
in any mixture is M = + V./VJ. 

therefore at the outlet from the cooler 

M 2 = 38(1 + 840/1430) 

= 38 X 1-588 
= 60-3 lb. per hour. 


But the air pump deals with the same mass as leaves the cooler, so that 
the air pump will deal with a mass of 60-3 lb. per hour of air and vapour at 
55 ° F. 

At the inlet to the cooler we have 

M i = 3 8 ( i + 2487/871) 

= 38 x 3-85 
= 146-3 lb. per hour. 

The ratio will therefore be 146-3 /6o*3 = 2-427. 



4 6 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


The mass of vapour condensed out by the cooler is obtained from equa- 
tion (32) p. 42, 

M, = i, - VJY 2s ) 

= 38(2487/871 - 840/1430) 

= 38 X 2*269 
= 86 lb. per hour. 

Example .—During the test of a surface condenser it was desired to 
know the extent of the air leakage. For this purpose the following readings 
were taken: 

’ Vacuum at bottom of condense! .. .. .. .. 28*8 in. Hg. 

Barometer .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 29*9 in. Hg. 

Temperature of condensate .. .. .. .. .. 8o° F. 

Outlet temperature of air and vapour from air cooler .. 70° F. 

Inlet temperature of cooling water entering air cooler .. 6o° F. 

Outlet temperature of cooling water leaving air cooler .. 62° F. 

The quantity of cooling water flowing through the cooler was estimated 
to be 1500 gall, per minute. 

First find Y la and V 2a) and from the steam tables find V l5 and 
and L. 

Since the barometer is 29*9 in. Hg, the absolute pressure 

p x = 29*9 — 28-8 
= i*i in. Hg. 

.*. p la = i*i - 1*029 
= 0*071 in. Hg. 

Then V la = [30 X 12-39(459-6 + 8o)]/[o-07i(459-6 + 32)] 

= 5745 c. ft. per pound of air; 
and V„ = 636-8 c. ft. per pound; 

p 2 a = p 2 p 2 s 

= I-I - 0739 
= 0-361 in. Hg; 

V 2a = [30 X 12-39(459-6 + 7 °)]/[o-36i(459-6 + 32)] 

= 1109 c. ft. per pound of air; 
and V* = 871 c. ft. per pound. 

The latent heat of the vapour at pressure p ls is 1046*7. Then, substi¬ 
tuting in equation (34) (p. 42), we get 

600 X 1500(62 — 60) 

= tb[io 46-7(5745/636-8 — 1109/871) + 0-2375(80 — 70)], 
i.e. m = 222 lb. per hour. 






SURFACE CONDENSERS 


49 


The mean temperature difference d m will be by equation (8): 

~ (®1 e 2 )/[ 2- 3 log 10 ( 0 1 I 6 ^)] 

= (16 - 8)/(2-3 log 10 2) 

= 11 ‘ 57 ° F - 

It is best next to fix, provisionally, a tube velocity and find the con¬ 
densation rate and surface, then work out the number of tubes to give the 
above velocity; thereafter finding the tube length and number of flows. 
If the condenser works out too long or too short, the tube velocity must be 
modified or the number of flows may be modified to give a reasonable 
length to the condenser. Sometimes the tube length is specified, and in 
such cases the tube velocity and surface must be modified to suit the tube 
length. The method is more or less trial and error, although judgment and 
experience may do a lot. 

Let us therefore provisionally fix the tube velocity at 7 ft. per second. 

Then the condensation rate w from equation (13) (p. 9) will be 

W = 0 »/[R» + R t + (R, + R a )], 

and from the equation (14) (p. 9), 

K = c/v 0 ' 82 

= 3*3/7 ° 82 

= 0-67. 

Taking the value of Ry + R a — 1-05, and from p. 9, R t = 0-08 so 
that by substituting the values 

w = 11*57/(0*67 + 0*08 + 1*05) 

= 6*43 lb. per square foot. 

The total condensing surface necessary then will be 

S = 150,000/6-43 
= 23,330 sq.ft. 


From p. 32 we have: 

(wA^/144 = G/(6o X 6*25), 

where n is the number of tubes per flow, 

i.e. n = (i44G)/(Av X 60 X 6-25) 

= (144 X i9,23o)/(o-336 X 7 X 60 X 6-25) 

= 3139 tubes per flow. 

Since the condenser is two flow, the total number of tubes will then 
be = 6278. 

< D 450 ) 


4 



50 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


To find the length of the tube between the tube plates we have: 

l = (i 2 S)/( 27 rDw) (see p. 32) 

= (12 X 23,330 X 4)/(2 X 3139 X 7T X 3) 

= i 8*9 ft. 

If this length is excessive for the convenient withdrawal of the tubes 
then the tube velocity must be reduced. This would reduce the length /, 
although the surface S would be increased. The length of 18*9 ft. is, how¬ 
ever, not abnormal. 

To find the friction head across the condenser we must know the overall 
length of the tubes. Assuming the tube plates ij in. thick, and the tubes 
to project | in. beyond the tube plates, the overall length of the tubes will 
be 18 ft. io-8 in. + 2*5 in. + 0*25 in. = 19 ft. 1*55 in. = say, 19 ft. 1 \ in. 

From fig. 7 we find that the friction head in a 10-ft. length, at a velocity 
of 7 ft. per second, is 4*35 ft., and the entrance friction head is 1*2 ft. 

Since the condenser is two flow, the value of the condenser friction H, 
(see p. 19) will be 1 ft. 6 in. 

The total friction head H will be (see p. 17) 

H = 2 H t + 2 H e + H c 

= (2 X 4*35 X i9-i25)/io + (2 x 1-2) + i*6 
= 16*6 -f- 2*4 1*6 

= 20*6 ft. 

This is under the allowance of 22 ft. 

To fix up the surface necessary in the air cooler it is usually easiest to 
fix arbitrarily the surface by taking it as a percentage of the condensing 
surface, and finding the quantity of air that this surface is capable of cooling 
to an arbitrarily fixed air outlet temperature. The correct surface can 
usually be found at the second trial. 

Let us take the cooler surface S c as 5 per cent of the condensing surface 
(a common value), and let us fix the outlet temperature of the air and vapour 
at 5 0 F. higher than the cooling water inlet temperature, i.e. 55 -j- 5 = 6o° F. 

The surface then will be 

S, = 23,330/20 
= 1166*5 sq.ft. 

The air and vapour velocity through the cooler is usually very low, so 
that the pressure drop becomes negligible; the absolute pressure p through¬ 
out the cooler therefore will be 

30 — 29*21 = 0*79 in Hg. 

TVvtw aX. \wltV. 

Pla === P Plsj 
i.e. p la = 0*79 - 0*764 

= 0*026 in. Hg; 



SURFACE CONDENSERS 


5i 


and at outlet: 

P2a — P p2s 

= O79 ~ 0-522 
= 0-268 in. Hg; 

also V la = [30 x 12-39(459-6 + 7i)]/[o-026(459-6 + 3 2 )] 

= 15,430 c. ft. per pound; 
and V ls — 843 c. ft. per pound; 

v 2a = [30 X 12-39(459-6 + 6 o)]/[o-268(459-6 + 32)] 

= 1466 c. ft. per pound; 
and V 2s = 1208 c. ft. per pound. 

It simplifies the calculation here to take the arithmetic mean temperature 
difference in equation (35) instead of the logarithmetic mean temperature 
difference without appreciable error, so that equation (35) becomes 

s £ = WV la /V 1 -V 2j /V 2i )(R B +R ( + R fl )]/[((4-T 1 ) + fe-T 2 )}/ 2 ], 
R„ = 0-67 (see p. 49). 

Put R £ — 0-08; for air cooler conditions R a may be taken as 4-5. 

1166-5 = [2^(15,430/843 — i466/i2o8)(o-67 + 0-08 + 4-5)] 
-[(7i-55) + (6o-T 2 )] 

= (2^ X 17-086 x 5*25)/(7 6 — T 2 ); 
or T 2 = (179-403^ — 88664)/i 166-5 
= — 0-154^ + 76. 

Since the tube velocity in the air cooler is the same as that in the 
condenser, the quantity of cooling water flowing through the cooler will 
be proportional to half the condensing surface (the condenser being two 
flow) and the whole of the cooler surface, 

i.e. G = (19,230 X 1166-5 X 2)/23,33° 

= 1923 gall, per minute. 

Again, from equation (34) (p. 42) we have, by substitution: 

600 X I923(T 2 - 55) 

= ^[1051-7(15430/843 - 14466/1208} + 0-2375(71 - 60)], 
or T 2 = x 17-086 + 2-6i3)/(6oo x 1923)] + 55 

= 0-016 m + 55. 

Solving these two equations connecting T 2 and m, we get: 

— o-i54w + 76 == o-o 16m + 55, 

m = 123-5 lb. of air per hour. 



52 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


Now the allowable air leakage would be obtained by the B.E.A.M.A 
rule (see p. 37). 

m = (0*5 W)/1000 + 3 

== (0*5 x i5o,ooo)/iooo -f- 3 

= 75 + 3 

= 78 lb. of air per hour. 

An air cooler surface, therefore, of 5 per cent of the condensing surface 
is ample to deal with the allowable air leakage. 

Since the tubes in the air cooler must, for constructional reasons, be 
the same length as the tubes in the condenser the number in the cooler 
will be 

number of tubes in condensing portion X surface of air cooler 
total condensing surface 

= (2 X 3139 X ii 66-5)/23,330 
= say, 314. 

It is usual to arrange for the same tube velocity in both passes, which 
means that the number of tubes in the first pass of the condensing portion, 
plus the number of tubes in the cooler, must equal the number of tubes 
in the second pass. 

Arranging the tubes then in this fashion we get the number in each 
pass to be 

= (2 x 3139 + 3i4)/2 

= 3296- 

The actual tube velocity will then be 

= [(19.230 + 1923) X 10 X i44]/[6o X 62-5 X 0*336 X 3296] 

= 7*33 ft. per second. 

The velocity we provisionally fixed upon was 7 ft. per second. This 
increased velocity will give a slightly increased margin to the condensing 
surface, and will slightly increase the friction head across the condenser, 
which now becomes 22*4 ft., or just slightly over the specified head. 

The principal data for this condenser may now be collected as follows: 

Duty, 150,000 lb. steam per hour. 

Vacuum at steam inlet branch, 29*1 in. Hg. 

Barometer, 30 in. Hg. 

Inlet temperature of cooling water, 55 0 F. 

Quantity of cooling water required, 19,230 + 1923 = 21,153 gall, 
per minute. 

Surface in condenser, 23,330 sq. ft. 

Surface in cooler, 1166*5 sc l* &• 

Friction head across condenser, 22*4 ft. 

* Pressure drop in steam space, o-n in. Hg. 



SURFACE CONDENSERS 


53 


Tube velocity, 7*33 ft. per second. 

Outlet temperature of air and vapour from cooler, 6o° F. 

Length between tube plates, 18 ft. 9 in. 

Number of tubes in condenser ,*6278. 

Number of tubes in cooler, 314. 

Tubes, f in. O/D 18, S.W.G. thick. 

From these particulars the condenser may be set down on the drawing- 
board, when it only remains to so space the tubes at the top that the enter¬ 
ing steam speed does not exceed that corresponding to the pressure drop 
of o-i 1 in. Hg. This steam speed is obtained from fig. 12, 198 ft. per second. 

We shall now take an example of a steam condenser for the reciprocating 
engine of a cargo boat of 3000 i.h.p. 

Let the given conditions be: 

Sea temperature, 6o° F. 

Vacuum, 27 in. with a 30-in. Hg barometer. 

Tubes to be f in. O/D, 18 S.W.G. thick, and 9 ft. overall length. 

Steam consumption of engine, say, 15 lb. per i.h.p. hour. 

For reasons which will be given 
later, no air cooler need be fitted 
to a condenser for 27 in. vacuum. 

We shall, therefore, fit no air cooler 
to this condenser. The steam 
entering the condenser will be 

= 15 X 3000 

= 45,000 lb. per hour. 

Let fig. 20 represent our con¬ 
denser. Since the tube length is 
specified it will be necessary to 
rough out the particulars provi¬ 
sionally from assumed values. 

Let these assumed values be: 

Condenser to be three flow. 

Tube velocity, 6 ft. per second. 

Temperature difference between ingoing steam and outgoing cooling 
water (see p. 15), 25 0 F. 

The temperature drop across the steam space, — / 2 ) — I0 ° 

The outlet temperature of the cooling water will be 

T 2 = 115 - 25 
= 90° F., 

and t 2 = 115 — 10 
= 105° F. 




54 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


Then the mean temperature difference 6 m will be 

= (#1 - 0 *)/[ 2'3 lo gio(^i/^2>] 

= t( I0 5 - 60) - (115 - go)]/[2-3 log 10 (45/25)] 

= 20/(2'3 X 0 - 255 ) 

= 34° F. 

The quantity of cooling water is given by equation (16) (p. 16) and taking 

q = o*9, 

G = [45,000(0*9 x 1027 + 115 — io5)]/[6oo(90 — 60)] 

= (451° 00 X 934)/(600 X 30) 

— 2 335 gall- P er minute. 

Then w = 0 m /( R w + R t + R f + RJ, 
and R w = C/v° 82 

= 2*72/6 0 ' 82 
= 0*626. 

Putting R y + R a = i *3 (P* I0 )» we g et 

07 = 34/(0*626 + 0*08 + 1*3) 

= 17 lb. per square foot. 

The provisional condensing surface therefore is 

= 45-000/17 
= 2650 sq. ft. 

Assuming tube plates 1 in. thick, and the tubes projecting in. beyond 
the tube plates, the length / between the tube plates will be 

l = 9 ft. — 2 \ in. 

= 8 ft. 9I in. 

The number of tubes per flow will be 

n = (i2S)/(3ttD/) (seep.32) 

= (12 X 2650 X 4)/(3 X 7T X 3 X 8-812) 

= 5 10 - 

Since there are three passes the total number of tubes will be 

= 510 X 3 

= I 53°* 


The actual tube velocity is 

® = ( 2 335 X i44)/(6-25 x 0-336 x 510 X 60) 
= 5-23 ft. per second. 



SURFACE CONDENSERS 


55 


The provisionally fixed tube velocity was 6 ft. per second, so that either 
the surface must be slightly increased or the quantity of cooling water passing 
must be slightly decreased. 

Let the surface be increased to 2800 sq. ft., then the actual condensation 
rate will be 

w = 45,000/2800 

= 16*07 lb* per square foot. 

The number of tubes per flow will be increased to 
= (510 X 2800)/2650 
= 539 . 

and the tube velocity will be decreased to 

= (5-23 x 5 i °)/539 
= 4*95 ft. per second. 

Then the condensation rate which the condenser is capable of giving is: 

W = 34 /(R w + 0-08 + 1-3), 
and R ra = 272/4-95 0 ' 82 
= 272/371 
= 0733 - 

w = 34/(0-733 + 0-08 -f 1-3) 

= 34/ 2 -”3 

= 16*09 lb. per square inch, 

which is almost the same as the actual rate of 16*07. 

The friction head across the condenser will be 

H = 3 H* + 3 U e + H c 

= (3 X 2*1 X 9)/io + 3 X 0*65 + 2 

= 5' 6 7 + I- 95 + 2 

= 9*62 ft. 

The principal data for this condenser may now be collected, and is as 
follows: 

Duty, 45,000 lb. steam per hour. 

Vacuum at steam inlet branch, 27 in. Hg. 

Barometer, 30 in. Hg. 

Inlet temperature of cooling water, 6o° F. 

Quantity of cooling water required, 2315 gall, per minute. 
Condensing surface, 2800 sq. ft. 

Friction head across condenser, 9*62 ft. 

Tube velocity, 4*95 ft. per second. 

Length between tube plates, 8 ft. 9! in. 

Number of tubes in condenser, 1617. 

Tubes, f in. 0 /D, 18 S.W.G. thick. 



56 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


CONSIDERATIONS WHICH SHOW THAT ONLY HIGH VACUUM 
CONDENSERS NEED BE FITTED WITH AN AIR COOLER 

Let the conditions at the bottom of the low vacuum condenser be: 

Vacuum, 25*5 in. with a 30-in. Hg barometer, 

Condensate temperature, 126° F., 

and let the conditions at the bottom of the high vacuum condenser be: 

Vacuum, 28-5 in. with a 30-in. Hg barometer, 

Condensate temperature, 79 0 F. 

In the low vacuum condenser the partial air pressure will be 

Pia — Pi Pu 

= (30 - 25-5 in.) - 4 in. 

= 0-5 in. Hg, 

and in the high vacuum condenser the partial air pressure will be 

Pia — Pi Pis 

= ( 3 ° ~ 28 '5 in -) — 1 in - 
= o *5 in - H g* 

There is thus a loss in vacuum due to air in each condenser of 0*5 in. Hg. 
The corresponding loss in condensate temperature is, for the low vacuum 
condenser, 

= vacuum temperature at 25*5 in. Hg — vacuum temperature at 26 in. Hg 
= 130 — 126 
= 4 °F. 

The corresponding loss for the high vacuum condenser is 

= vacuum temperature at 28*5 in. Hg — vacuum temperature at 29 in. Hg 
= 92-79 

= 13° F. 

Therefore, if no air cooler be fitted to either condenser, the condensate 
must be cooled 4 0 F. below the vacuum temperature in the low vacuum 
condenser, and 13 0 F. in the high vacuum condenser to give an equal partial 
air pressure in each case of 0-5 in. 

This depression of the condensate temperature is a direct heat loss, as 
the loss has to be made up in the boiler fuel and represents an increased fuel 
consumption in the furnaces of approximately 

, (4 X ioo)/iooo = 0-4 per cent in the low vacuum installation, 
and (13 X ioo)/iooo = 1-3 per cent in the high vacuum installation. 



SURFACE CONDENSERS 


57 

The latter installation, therefore, has the greater heat loss, and it is to 
minimize this loss that an air cooler is fitted. 

The above comparison is made on equal air pressure conditions in the 
condenser and is thus a true comparison of the condensers themselves. 
There is, however, the secondary consideration of the air-pumping capacity 
of the air pumps fitted in the two cases, which if not equal would affect the 
air pressures. These pressures can be so arranged that the heat loss would 
be the same, but in this case more energy must be expended by the air pump 
to maintain the lower air pressure in the high vacuum condenser. We shall 
discuss this point further when comparing displacement air pumps with air 
ejectors. 

AREA OF EXHAUST INLET 

The allowable speed of the steam through the inlet should vary with the 
vacuum, and the length of exhaust or eduction pipe. From considerations 
similar to these investigated on pp. 25 to 28 for the pressure drop across a 
surface condenser, this allowable steam speed should increase with increase 
in vacuum. Owing to increase of friction with increased length of piping 
the allowable steam speed should decrease with increased length of piping. 
For each installation, therefore, the steam speed allowed should take into 
consideration the length and number of bends in the exhaust piping as well 
as the vacuum. With the modern underhung condenser for turbines the 
length of the eduction pipe is reduced to a minimum, so that the vacuum 
loss from this cause is reduced to a minimum. With reciprocating engines 
there is usually a large amount of throttling in the exhaust ports and passages, 
but with these engines the drop in efficiency from loss of vacuum caused 
by throttling is much lower than it is for turbines. 

For normal lengths of exhaust piping the area of the steam inlet branch 
on the condenser may be found from the following rule, which gives average 
working values. 

A = W/X, 

where A is the area of steam inlet in square inches; 

W, the weight of steam in the condenser in pounds per hour; and 

X is a constant taken from Table II. 

Table II 


Vacuum, inches Hg. 

24 

24-5 

25 

25-5 

26 

26-5 

27 

27-5 

28 

28-5 

29 

For Land Reciprocal j 
ing Engines, X .. j 

102 

95 

89 

83 

76 

69 

6l 

53 

44 

— 

— 

For Turbines, X .. 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

20 

I 7'5 


12*5 

10 

For Marine Recipro- \ 
eating Engines, X ’) 

170 

00 

►H 

I48 

138 

126 

” S 

102 

90 

73 


— 




58 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


MISCELLANEOUS EXAMPLES ON SURFACE CONDENSERS 

i. A marine surface condenser was reported to be giving an unsatis¬ 
factory vacuum, and to locate the fault the ship’s engineers were requested 
to make the following observation at the designed H.P. nozzle box steam 


pressure, and report. The observations were: 

Vacuum .. .. .. .. .. 26 in. Hg. 

Barometer .. . . .. .. 2975 in. Hg. 

Sea temperature .. .. .. 55 0 F. 

Outlet temperature of cooling water .. 73 0 F. 

Temperature of condensate .. .. ioo° F. 

The designed conditions were: 

Vacuum .. .. .. .. .. 28 in. Hg. 

Barometer .. .. .. .. 30 in. Hg. 

Sea temperature . . .. . . 6o° F. 

Outlet temperature of cooling water .. 8o° F. 

Temperature of condensate .. . . 95 0 F. 


State whether the fault was air leakage or a dirty condenser, or a deficiency 
in cooling water. 

Answer .—The rise in the temperature of the cooling water is 18 0 F. as 
against the designed rise of 20° F.; that is less than the designed rise. Since 
the designed quantity of steam is being condensed, because the H.P. nozzle 
box steam pressure is the designed pressure, there is thus more cooling water 
passing than the designed quantity and therefore no deficiency in cooling 
water. This assures equal condensate temperatures, but since the difference 
is only 5 0 F. of sensible heat it may be here neglected. 

The difference between the condensate temperature and the sea tempera¬ 
ture is 45 0 F. against the designed difference of 35 0 F. Bearing in mind 
the fact that there is 18 0 F. rise in the cooling as against the designed rise of 
20 0 F., the above increase of difference from 35 0 F. to 45 0 F. indicates an 
increase in the resistance to heat flow, due probably to a slight deposit of 
scale inside the tubes, but not sufficient to account for all the vacuum loss. 
The vacuum corresponding to a condensate temperature of ioo° F. is 28*07 
in. Hg, while the vacuum recorded corrected to a 30-in. Hg barometer is 
26*52 in. Hg, so that the vacuum loss caused by air leakage is 28*07 — 26*25 
= 1*82 in. Hg. The main fault therefore lies in abnormal air leakage. This 
difference between the actual vacuum in the condenser and the vacuum corre¬ 
sponding to the condensate temperature is an accurate air leakage gauge, 
and always indicates whether loss of vacuum is due to air leakage or not. 
If the vacuum recorded be that at the top of the condenser the vacuum loss 
from top to bottom should be taken into account, and to eliminate this loss 
it is always advisable in an investigation of this sort to fit a vacuum gauge, 
preferably of the sentinel type, to the bottom of the condenser. 







SURFACE CONDENSERS 


59 


2. A surface condenser, having 26,000 sq. ft. of condensing surface, is 
designed to record 28 in. vacuum at the exhaust inlet when supplied with 
26,000 gall, of cooling water per minute, at a temperature of 8o° F. The 
condenser is fitted to an 18,000-kw. turbo-alternator, having a steam con¬ 
sumption rate of 11 lb. per kilowatt-hour. The tubes are f in. O/D, and the 
tube velocity is 6-5 ft. per second. The temperature of the condensate is 
93 0 F. Calculate the value of the air resistance factor R a . 

Answer. —0*784. 

3. In the above example 2 the steam velocity past the first row of tubes 
is 173 ft. per second when the vacuum is 28 in. Hg. Find the pressure drop 
from top to bottom of the steam space, and hence find the partial air pressure 
at the bottom of the condenser. 

Answer .—Pressure drop = 0*2 in. Hg. 

Partial air pressure = 0*22 in. Hg. 

4. A surface condenser having 16,135 sq. ft. of condensing surface is 
designed to condense 120,000 lb.perhourof exhaust steam at 29 in. Hg vacuum. 
The cooling water has an inlet temperature of 50° F., and the designed rise 
in temperature of the cooling water is 16*67° F. Taking the condensate as 
being io° F. lower than the vacuum temperature, calculate what the vacuum 
would be at inlet cooling water temperatures of 40° F., 6o° F., 70° F., and 
8 o° F., and plot a curve showing the relation between the vacuum and inlet 
temperature of the cooling water. Assume a constant steam flow, a constant 
quantity of cooling water and equal pressure drops from top to bottom in each 
case. The tubes are 1 in. outside diameter and the tube velocity is 6 ft. per 
second. 

Inlet temperature of \ 0 p 6o ° p 70 ° F . 8o° F. 

cooling water . . J ^ ' 

Answer. _ 

Vacuum .. .. 29*2410. 28*65 in. 28*19 in. 27.63 in. 


Note .—Owing to the variation in vacuum drop or pressure drop from the 
top to the bottom with actual vacuum, the vacuum recorded at 40° F. would be 
slightly less, and the vacuaat 6o°, 70°, and 8o° F. slightly greater than the above, 
which have been calculated on the given assumption of equal vacuum drops. 

5. Take the condenser given in examples 2 and 3, and estimate what the 
vacua would be at inlet cooling water temperatures of 90° F. and 70° F. 
and 6o° F., taking account of the variation in pressure drop with vacuum. 


Answer. 


Inlet cooling water temperature | 90° F. 70° F. 6o° F. 

27*34 in. 28*49 in. 28 9 in. 


Vacuum .. 





6o 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


6. Find the difference in temperature between the top and bottom of 
the steam space in a surface condenser given the following: 

Vacuum at top, 29 in. Hg. 

Steam speed past first row of tubes, 240 ft. per second. 

Partial air pressure at bottom, 0*15 in. Hg. 

Answer. —10*7° F. 

7. The condenser given in example 6 is supplied with hotter cooling 
water, so that the vacuum is reduced to 28 in. Hg while the steam flow is 
held constant. Find what the temperature difference between the top and 
the bottom would be under the new conditions. 

Answer. —4*3° F. 

8. Calculate the quantity of cooling water necessary to condense 100,000 
lb. of exhaust steam per hour, having a wetness fraction of 0*08. The design 
of the condenser is such that the temperature difference between the top 
and the bottom is 8° F. The vacuum at the exhaust inlet is 28*75 in. Hg, 
and the inlet temperature of the cooling water is 65° F., and the outlet tem¬ 
perature 77 0 F. 

Answer .—13,450 gall, per minute. 

9. Calculate the condensing surface necessary to condense 35,000 lb. 
of exhaust steam per hour from a marine turbine and maintain a vacuum 
at the exhaust inlet of 28*5 in. Hg with sea water at 65° F. The temperature 
difference between the outgoing cooling water and the ingoing steam is 
15 0 F., and the allowable pressure drop from top to bottom of the condenser 
must not exceed 0*25 in. Hg. The air pump is of such a capacity that it 
can reduce the partial air pressure to 0*3 in. Hg. The tubes are § in. external 
diameter, and the tube velocity is 7 ft. per second. Take R a = 0*95. 

Answer .—4121 sq. ft. 

10. Calculate the condensing surface necessary to condense 18,000 lb. 
of exhaust steam from a reciprocating marine engine and maintain a vacuum 
of 26 in. Hg at the exhaust inlet with a sea temperature of 70° F. The heat 
given up by the steam per pound in condensing and cooling to the hotwell 
temperature is 965 B.Th.U. The ratio of the quantity of cooling water 
to the steam condensed is 30, and the pressure drop is o-i in. Hg. The partial 
air pressure at the bottom of the condenser is 0*45 in. Hg. The tubes are 
| in. external diameter, and the tube velocity is 6 ft. per second. Take R a = 
i* 4 * 

Answer.^ 1187 sq. ft. 

11. In example 9 find the mass of air and vapour being dealt with by 
the air pump per pound of air withdrawn. No air cooler is fitted to the 
condenser. 

Answer .—2*965 lb. per pound of air. 



SURFACE CONDENSERS 61 

12. Find the air cooler surface which should be provided in a surface 
condenser designed to condense 40,000 lb. of exhaust steam at 28*5 in. Hg 
vacuum. The pressure drop across the steam space is 0*2 in. Hg, and the 
partial air pressure at the bottom of the condenser is 0*05 in. Hg. The inlet 
temperature of the cooling water is 65° F., and the temperature rise of the 
cooling water passing through the cooler is i° F. The partial air pressure 
at the air outlet from the cooler must not be less than 0-3 in. Hg. The tube 
velocity is 7 ft. per second, and tubes are f in. O/D. Take R a = 3*5. 

Answer .—64*19 sq. ft. 

13. A surface condenser has 5210 f-in. external diameter tubes, 18 S.W.G. 
thick, and 18 ft. 6 in. long. The circulating water makes two passes through 
the condenser, and the quantity passing is 16,000 gall, per minute. Estimate 
what the friction head would be. 

If the difference in level between the inlet and outlet branches be 7 ft., 
what would be the difference in recorded pressure between two pressure 
gauges, one fitted on the centre line of each branch. 

Answer. —19*82 ft. friction head. 25*72 ft. or n*2 lb. per square inch 
difference. 

Various Makes of Surface Condensers 

WEIR UNIFLUX SURFACE CONDENSER 

Fig. 21 illustrates the latest design of the “ Weir Uniflux ” high vacuum 
condenser for land power stations. 

The condenser is of the two-flow type. The cooling water enters at the 
inlet A and flows through the bottom nest of tubes to the return end B, 
where the direction of flow is reversed. The water returns through the top 
nest of tubes and leaves by the outlet C. The steam enters at D and flowing 
vertically downwards across the cold tubes, becomes condensed; the con¬ 
densate is extracted through the branch E. The air, vapour, and non-con¬ 
densible gases pass to the integral air cooler and devaporizer F, and enter¬ 
ing the cooler .at the bottom flow upwards to the air outlet G; a large per¬ 
centage of the vapour being condensed, and the air and non-condensible 
gases considerably cooled. 

At the steam inlet the tubes are pitched wide apart, and the pitching is 
reduced in steps from the top to the bottom of the condenser, thereby giving 
an approximately uniform speed to the steam as it flows from the top to 
the bottom. The wide shallow shape of this condenser will be noticed, and 
the consequent short penetration in the tube bank, coupled with the diminu¬ 
tion of the tube pitching, render the pressure drop from the top to the 
bottom of the steam space very small, and the depression of the condensate 
temperature below the vacuum temperature within a few degrees. 

The steam inlet is made the full breadth of the condenser, and as long as 



62 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


the construction will permit, and, if the turbine exhaust branch cannot con¬ 
veniently be made this size, an adaptor piece is fitted between the turbine 
exhaust branch and the condenser. By this means .deflector baffle plates 
are dispensed with and the whole tube surface steam swept, so that no 
stagnant zones exist where air may collect and render the tube surface 
inefficient. For this reason the condensation rate in this condenser is very 
high. The integral air cooler F extends from end to end of the steam space, 
and is formed by a baffle extending between the tube-supporting diaphragm 
plates; angle iron flanges are riveted to the baffle and bolted to the dia¬ 
phragm, tube plates, and shell plates. A proper joint is made with jointing 
material, so that steam cannot leak from the steam space into the top of 
the cooler space and thereby render the cooler surface ineffective. With 
this construction the air and vapour must pass round the bottom of the baffle, 
so that the whole cooler surface is effective. The dry, air outlet G is placed 
a little lower than the top of the cooler, and three or four rows of tubes-are 
arranged between the underside of the baffle and the top of the air branch. 
This ensures that the air, which has already been cooled in passing through 
the cooler, is not reheated when passing into the air suction branch by 
flowing over the baffle, the baffle being maintained relatively hot by its 
being in contact with the steam on its steam side. The air is thus 
effectively cooled, and once cooled is protected against reheating by its 
coming into contact with a relatively hot baffle just as it enters the air 
suction branch. A hole is cut through each diaphragm plate as shown at 
H, so that each compartment of the cooler is effective. 

When the conditions of space, owing to the arrangement of the turbine 
foundations or seatings, permit, the makers sometime fit an independent air- 
suction branch to each compartment, and connect these branches externally 
by a branch pipe terminating in a common branch, which is led to the air 
ejector suction. Either arrangement is quite effective, the former having the 
advantage of simplicity and lower manufacturing costs. 

The tube-supporting diaphragms are made of mild steel, and are spaced 
so that the unsupported length of tube is normally not more than 4 ft., 
although in special cases condensers have been successfully installed with 
an unsupported tube length of 5 ft. The question of the unsupported tube 
length is one of vibration, and if the natural period of the unsupported 
length of tube happens to synchronize with the vibration of the turbine 
the tubes vibrate badly and ultimately split. This trouble is aggravated if the 
clearance between the tube hole in the diaphragm plates and the tubes is 
excessive, and present-day practice is to have this clearance as small as 
possible, so that the tube is well held at each diaphragm plate. A normal 
clearance is tp?' in. The device has been tried of placing the diaphragms 
out of line wltlTthe tube plates so that when the tubes are in place they are 
hogged; commercially straight condenser tubes, however, are usually off 
the truth to a sufficient extent to give the above effect with diaphragm plates 
and tube plates in line. The diaphragm plates are fitted clear of the con¬ 
denser shell by about J in., the attachment being by mild steel lugs riveted 


































64 STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 

to the shell and a fitted bolt passing through the diaphragm plate and the 
lug; one of these lugs is shown in fig. 22. 

The reason for this construction is that the diaphragm is used as a sup¬ 
port to stay the sides of the shell against the collapsing pressure due to the 
vacuum; the diaphragm is a strut and the fitted bolts passing through the 
lugs transfer some of the load on to the diaphragm. The diaphragm is 
stiffened laterally by the diaphragm stiffeners I (fig. 21). The exhaust steam 
inlet branch is stayed and stiffened by the palm stays J, the cross stays being 
clamped to the longitudinal stays by glands, thus reducing their virtual length 



Fig. 24.—“ Weir Uniflux ” Condensers 


as struts. The tube plates are stayed by long round steel stays which pass 
between them, the ends being reduced where they pass through the tube plates 
so as to form a shoulder against which the tube plates are tightened. 
The ends of the steel stays are protected and leakage of circulating water 
guarded against by the brass cap nuts over the ends of the stays. A steel 
angle stiffener is fitted behind the tube plates, this angle is studded, the 
studs passing through the tube plate at the return water end, and through 
both the tube plate and the division plate at the circulating water inlet end. 
The shell of the condenser is of mild steel plate riveted and caulked, while 
the end flanges and the exhaust inlet flange are steel castings. The wafer 
boxes and covers are of cast iron. The return end cover is dished; white 
the flat cover on the water box is suitably ribbed to withstand the. water 
pressure. Large cast-iron inspection doors are fitted to these enflvcovers, 
so that all the tube ends can be inspected without removing the end covers 
The tube plates are of rolled yellow metal, having a composition of 60 per 


SURFACE CONDENSERS 


65 


cent copper, 40 per cent zinc; while the tubes are of brass, having a composi¬ 
tion of 70 per cent copper, 30 per cent zinc, and are § in. outside diameter. 
18 S.W.G. thick. 

To allow for the differential expansion between the shell and tubes, the 
tubes are ferruled into the tube plates at both ends and packed with linen 
tape packings. Fig. 23 shows a section through one of the tube ends and 
ferrules. The ferrules have an inside lip to prevent the tubes creeping 
axially and ultimately coming out. The inlet side of the ferrule is rounded 
off to reduce the vena contracta at entrance and thereby reduce the friction 
loss at entrance. 

Fig. 24 shows one of three “ Weir Uniflux ” condensers recently installed 
at the Birmingham Corporation generating station at Nechells. These 
condensers were designed to maintain a vacuum of 28 in. Hg, with a cooling 
water inlet temperature of 8o° F., when dealing with 165,000 lb. of exhaust 
steam per hour from a 15,000-kw., Fraser & Chalmers turbo-alternator. 


Table III 

Test Figures of 15,000-KW. Condensing Plant at Nechells Generating 

Station, Birmingham 


Load in 
Kilowatts. 

Steam Load 

Barometer 

Vacuum 

Vacuum at 

Temperatures in Degrees Fahrenheit 

in Pounds 
per Hour. 

in Inches 
of Hg. 

at top of 
Condenser. 

Ejector 

Suction. 

Inlet 

Cooling 

Water. 

Outlet 

Cooling 

Water. 

Condensate. 

18,360 

195,600 

30 

2802 

28-12 

75 

93 

93 

15,000 

164,000 

30 

28-11 

2819 

78 

93 

92 

13.30° 

149,000 

30 

28-21 

28-29 

76 

91 

91 

7 . 5 °o 

89,000 

30 

28-43 

28-46 

77 

85 

86 

3 . 75 ° 

51,500 

30 

28-5 

28-6 

75 

84 

83 


The test sheet figures of this condensing plant are given in Table III, and 
the author is indebted to Messrs. G. & J. Weir, Ltd., for permission to 
publish these. 


MIRRLEES WATSON SURFACE CONDENSER 

Figs. 25, 26, and 27 show the latest design of Messrs. The Mirrlees 
Watson Company, for a large surface condenser suitable for a 15,000-kw. 
turbo-alternator. The internal tube arrangement of this condenser is very 
similar to that described for the “ Weir Uniflux ” condenser, excepting that 
the top nest of tubes is arranged for square pitching instead of diagonal 
pitching. The pitching at the top is very wide and gradually decreases from 
top to bottom of the condenser. A devaporizing chamber is also fitted. 

The designed conditions of this condenser are: steam duty, 160,000 lb. 

(D 450 ) 5 




EJECTOR AIR PUMPS. 
















































































































68 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


per hour; vacuum, 29*1 in. Hg; and inlet temperature of cooling water, 
50° F. 

The condenser shell is of cast iron suitably ribbed to withstand the 
vacuum. The tube plates are of rolled brass secured to the shell by a number 
of collar bolts, thus making a permanent vacuum joint when the end covers 
are removed for cleaning or inspection purposes. The tube supporting 



Fig. 29 .—Mirrlees Watson Surface Condenser 


plates are spaced so that the unsupported length of tube does not exceed 100 
times the tube diameter, and the tubes are secured to the tube plates by the 
usual ferrule, with rounded entrance to reduce the entrance losses of the 
cooling water to a minimum. 

Fig. 28 shows an example of a round condenser as designed and manu¬ 
factured by Messrs. The Mirrlees Watson Company for the Glasgow Cor¬ 
poration Electricity Works, Pinkston Power Station. 

This condenser works in conjunction with a 10,000-kw. turbo-alternator, 










SURFACE CONDENSERS 


69 


and is designed for a normal steam duty of 125,000 lb. of exhaust steam per 
hour, and maintaining a vacuum of 28-3 in. Hg, when supplied with 19,200 
gall, of cooling water per minute at a temperature of 75 0 F. It is also 
designed to cope with an overload of 185,000 lb. of exhaust steam per hour, 
and maintain a vacuum of 27*8 in. of mercury. The cooling surface is 19,000 
sq. ft., and the tubes are £ in. external diameter, 18 S.W.G. thick, and have 
a composition of 70 per cent copper, 29 per cent zinc, and 1 per cent tin. 
The water velocity through the tubes is 6*i ft. per second. 

The internal diameter of the shell is 10 ft., and the distance between the 
tube plates is 13 ft. 7 in. The shell is of cast iron suitably ribbed and stiffened 
to withstand the working conditions, and the tube plates are supported as 



Fig. 30 


shown by the gun-metal tension stays which extend through the water boxes 
to the end covers. 

The exhaust inlet is hooded to the full diameter of the condenser to 
present a large tube surface to the entering steam, and the tubes in the top 
third of the tube plate are given a parallel or square pitching to offer as little 
resistance as possible to the entering steam, and ensure its penetration to 
the centre of thq condenser, so that the whole tube surface is effective. The 
tube pitching is progressively reduced from top to bottom of the condenser. 

An air cooler or devaporizer is arranged for by sheltering a number 
of tubes under a galvanized baffle as shown. This baffle extends the whole 
length of the condenser, and is jointed to the condenser shell top and bottom. 
Adjacent to the tube plates, openings are provided, and the air and vapour 
entering the openings flow in a more or less horizontal path to the air pump 
suction branches situated along the condenser shell. 

Fig. 29 shows a photograph of this condenser, which gives a good idea 




7 o STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 

of the general construction; it also shows the hinged cleaning doors provided 
on the end covers. 

Fig. 30 shows the guarantee performance curves for this condenser, with 
varying steam duties and inlet water temperatures. It is customary for the 
manufacturers to supply performance curves for their condensers. 

Table IV gives the results of a test taken on this condenser on 17th Sep¬ 
tember, 1923, and the author is indebted to Messrs. The Mirrlees Watson 
Company for permission to publish these. 

Table IV 

Pinkston No. 4, io,ooo-kw. Condensing Plant 


Time. 

Vacuum in Inches 
Hg, Corrected to 

30 in. Bar. 

Vacuum 
Drop 
Across 
Condenser 
in Inches 
Hg. 

Tempera¬ 
ture Corre¬ 
sponding to 
Vacuum at 
Turbine 
Exhaust. 

0) 

3 S 

O 

3 0 5 

c 

Circulating 

Water. 

Lea 

Recorder, 
Pounds per 
Hour. 


Turbine 

Exhaust. 

Air 

Suction. 

g c 

log 

Inlet 

Outlet. 

p.m. 

1*00 

28-8 

29*0 

0*2 

•F. 

84-6 

°F. 

80 

°F. 

4-6 

°F. 

66 

°F. 

78 

120,000 

1-15 

28-8 

29*0 

0*2 

84-6 

80 

4*6 

66 

77 

112,000 

1*30 

28-8 

29*0 

0*2 

84-6 

79 

5'6 

66 

77 

110,000 

108,000 

i-45 

28-8 

29*0 

0*2 

8 4 -6 

78 

6-6 

66 

76 

2*00 

28-85 

29*0 

M 

6 

833 

78 

5-3 

66 

76 

104,000 

2-15 

28-85 

28-95 

0*1 

83-3 

79 

4'3 

66 

76 

104,000 

2-30 

28-85 

29*0 

0*05 

83-3 

78 

5'3 

66 

76 

102,000 

2-45 

28-85 

28-95 

0*1 

83-3 

78 

5‘ 3 

66 

76 

98,000 

3‘°° 

28-85 

28-95 

o-i 

833 

78 

5'3 

66 

76 

98,000 

3 -I 5 

28*9 

28-95 

0-05 

82-0 

78 

4-0 

66 

76 

96,000 

3-45 

28*9 

29*0 

0*1 

82*0 

78 

4-0 

66 

75 

92,000 

4-00 

28*9 

29*0 

0*1 

82*0 

78 

4-0 

66 

75 

92,000 

4'3° 

28*85 

28-95 

0*1 

83-3 

78 

5'3 

66 

76 

105,000 

4'45 

28-85 

28-95 

0-05 

83-3 

79 

4-3 

66 

77 

112,000 

S'°° 

28-8 

28-95 

0*1 

8 4 -6 

80 

4-6 

66 

76 

112,000 


The following simple analysis of these results may be instructive. 

Taking the first reading which is the nearest to the normal full load 
conditions, we note that the vacuum recorded is 28-8 in. Hg, the inlet water 
temperature is 66° F., and from fig. 30 the guaranteed vacuum for this tem¬ 
perature is 28*63 in. Hg. The attained vacuum therefore is 0*17 in. Hg 
higher than the guaranteed vacuum. The rise in temperature of the circu¬ 
lating water is 78 — 66 = 12 0 F., and assuming that the exhaust steam 
contains 1000 B.Th.U. per pound, the quantity of circulating water will be 

G = (120,000 X iooo)/(i2 X 600) 

= 16,666 gall, per minute. 

The designed quantity was 19,200 gall, per minute, so that the vacuum 
performance is better than that shown above, because of the reduced quantity 
of circulating water. The total vacuum loss is 0*2 in. Hg, and the de¬ 
pression of the condensate temperature is 4*6° F.; this depression of con- 




SURFACE CONDENSERS 


7 i 

densate temperature is a direct loss, and 4-6° F. represents a loss of approxi¬ 
mately 

4-6/1000 = 0-46 per cent 

of the steam consumption of the main turbine, or 

(120,000 X o-46)/ioo = 550 lb. of steam per hour. 

Taking the boiler as giving 6 lb. of steam per pound of coal, and coal 
at 18s. per ton, the above loss represents an annual value of 

(550 X 24 X 7 X 52 X i8)/(6 X 2240 X 20) = £322. 

This is quite a moderate loss for a surface condenser from the above 
cause, but it indicates the importance of keeping the temperature drop 
across the condenser down to the lowest limits. 

On p. 47 an expression was given for the coefficient of performance of 
a condenser. Working this out for this condenser we get: 

coefficient of performance = (T 2 — T X )/(T, — T c + 10) 

= (78 - 66)/(84-6 - 80 + 10) 

= 0-822. 

This is quite a good value. 

The average value of the resistance to heat flow R a (see p. 10) may be 
worked out as follows: 

W = ^m/(R a + + R k ) 

= 120,000/19,000 
= 6-32 lb. per square foot. 

And the mean temperature difference 6 m is: 

e m - [(80 - 66) - (84-6 - 7 8)]/[2-3 X log 10 (8o - 66)/(8 4 -6 - 78)] 

= 9 -S 5 ° F - 

Now R w = C/*; 0 ' 82 . 

From fig. 5 C = 2-85, 

and the tube velocity v = (6-i X 16,666)/i9,200 

= 5-3 ft. per second. 

R w = 2 - 8 5 / 5 - 3 0 ' 82 
= 0-726; 

and R ( = 0-08. 

Then substituting the values in the equation, w — 0 m /( R a -f R, + R«,). 
we get: 

6-32 = 9-85/(R a + 0-08 -f 0-726); 

= 0-75. 



72 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


CONTRA-FLOW SURFACE CONDENSER 

The arrangement of the contra-flow surface condenser for land power 
stations is as shown in fig. 31. This condenser has a cooling surface 
of 40,000 sq. ft. and is of the two-flow type with the first flow A 
nested inside the second or return flow B. The sides of the shell are 
carried well out beyond the tubes, and are arranged to give a diminish¬ 
ing area from the top to 
the bottom of the con¬ 
denser. This arrange¬ 
ment gives a large en¬ 
trance area for the steam, 
so that the loss in vacuum 
is reduced to the mini¬ 
mum. Guide plates C 
are fitted in the first 
flow and are arranged as 
shown so that the area 
for steam flow is gradu¬ 
ally diminished, thus 
maintaining the steam 
velocity as condensation 
proceeds. These baffles 
also catch the water fall¬ 
ing from the upper tubes, 
and divert it to the con¬ 
densate outlet. The 
water is thus prevented 
0UTLET from falling on the lower 

Fig. 31.—Section through Contra-flow Condenser and Colder tubes. This 

arrangement it is claimed 

gives a condensate temperature commensurate with the vacuum. Deva¬ 
porizing and air-cooling chambers are arranged beneath the baffles D, 
and two air outlets are arranged for. 

REGENERATIVE SURFACE CONDENSERS 

On p. 71 mention was made of the depression of the condensate tem¬ 
perature and of the loss involved by such depression. This loss varies 
with the general design of the condenser and must be reduced to a mini¬ 
mum. The regenerative condenser has been designed with this end in 
view. 

It can readily be realized that in a normal condenser the steam which is 
condensed in the top of the condenser is progressively cooled in its descent 
to the bottom of the condenser, the cooling being due to the combined 


EXHAUST STEAM INLET 



CONDENSATE 



SURFACE CONDENSERS 


73 


effect of the increasing partial air pressure and the contact of the con¬ 
densed steam on the surface of the cold tubes. The result of these effects 
is the depression of the condensate temperature below the vacuum tem¬ 
perature at the top of the condenser. 

All regenerative condensers are de¬ 
signed on the principle that exhaust 
steam must penetrate unimpeded to 
the bottom of the condenser. The 
relatively cold condensate, therefore, 
in falling from the bottom row of 
tubes falls through the relatively 
hot steam which has penetrated to 
the bottom of the condenser. The 
condensate is thereby reheated by 
direct contact to a temperature ap¬ 
proximating that of the steam. 

There have recently been placed 
on the market three condensers de¬ 
signed on this principle; these are the 
radial flow condenser of the West- 
inghouse Company of America; the 
regenerative condenser of Messrs. G. & J. Weir, Ltd.; and that designed by 
Messrs. Brown Boveri of Switzerland. 

Fig. 32 illustrates the radial flow condenser of the Westinghouse Com- 
pany. 

The tubes are arranged in two concentric flows A and B: the inner 
flow A being the first flow, and the outer flow B being the second or return 
flow. The exhaust steam enters at C and, entering the tubes radially, 
flows to the air suction D arranged in the centre. Two belts E and F are 
formed round the sides, so that the steam can penetrate right to the bottom 
or condensate outlet. The condensate, therefore, in falling from the 
bottom tubes, is thereby raised in temperature and leaves the condenser 
by the outlet branch G at approximately steam temperature. Since the 
first flow A is arranged inside the second flow B a large air-cooling effect 
is obtained, and the air leaving by the air outlet D is devaporized of much 
of its associated vapour, and the air considerably cooled. A feature of this 
design is the short penetration of the steam into the tube bank to the air 
suction. 

Fig. 33 illustrates the regenerative condenser of Messrs. G. & J. Weir, 
Ltd. 

This condenser has a large clear passage E arranged down the centre, so 
that exhaust steam can penetrate to the bottom and thereby reheat the con¬ 
densate to approximately steam temperature. A two-flow passage for the 
cooling water is adopted, these flows being arranged in pairs on opposite 
sides of the passage E. The first flow is A, and the second flow is B. Twin 
inlet and outlet cooling water branches H and J respectively are employed, 



Fig. 32.—The Westinghouse Regenerative Condenser 



74 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


and the arrangement lends itself admirably to the modern divided con¬ 
denser, so that one-half can be cleaned while the other half is in commis¬ 



sion. Baffles K are arranged so that a very large and efficient air cooler is 
provided, the air suction branches being at D. 

Fig. 34 illustrates the design adopted by Messrs. Brown Boveri. 

EXHAUST STEAM INLET 


J 



"■ CONDENSATE 
SUCTION 

Fig, 34.—The Brown-Boveri Regenerative Condenser 


This arrangement is very similar to that adopted by Messrs. G. & J. 
Weir, Ltd., the main difference being in the perforated baffle plate arranged 
over the air suctions D. 





SURFACE CONDENSERS 


75 


JOHN CRANE METALLIC PACKING FOR CONDENSER 

TUBES 

A recent development in condenser tube packing is that known as the 
John Crane Metallic Packing. This packing was first introduced in the 
United States, and is now manufactured in England by Crane Packing, Ltd., 
Slough, England, to whom the author is indebted for the following 
illustration. 

The ideal condenser tube packing should be one which effectively pre¬ 
vents leakage of the circulating water into the vacuum or steam space under 
varying temperature conditions; the pressure of the packing on the tube 
should not be such as to cause crushing or deformation of the tube. 
The tube should be free to expand and 
contract longitudinally, and the act of 
packing should be simple and easily 
performed. 

Much has been written regarding 
the disintegration of condenser tubes, 
and two schools have developed from 
the various discussions* which have 
taken place. One school has advanced 
the theory that condenser tube corro¬ 
sion is purely galvanic or electrolytic 
in action. The other school holds that 
the corrosion is due to metallic im¬ 
purities or improper selection of the 
materials used in the tube manufacture, 
the effect being attributed to the action known as local action. Both 
schools are probably so far correct, and the corrosion which is commonly 
experienced may be due to both causes. It is now generally accepted that 
the materials used in the manufacture of condenser tubes should be the 
purest obtainable and, especially for condensers using sewage or sea water 
for cooling, some form of protection against galvanic action should be 
provided. This protection is provided in the Crane process by employing 
a metallic packing. This is made up of thin foil of Babbit metal built up 
of many spiral layers. Entrapped between these layers of Babbit metal is 
a length of fabric tape or other suitable expansion material. 

These tape entrapped Babbit foil rings are flexible and compressible, 
and when caulked in the stuffing box in the tube plate expand and form 
a metallic contact between the tube and the tube plate. This metallic contact 
is claimed by the Crane Company to greatly minimize galvanic or electro¬ 
lytic action. The assembly of this packing is shown in fig. 35. 

This “ John Crane ” flexible metallic packer, as it is called, is a one- 
piece unit and is complete in itself. It is slipped into position over the tube 
and into the stuffing box, and caulked up with a suitable caulking tool, 
using a few light hammer blows. When the condenser is thus packed the 



Fig- 35 -—“ John Crane ” Packing for Condenser 
Tubes 




76 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


hydrostatic test up to 30 lb. per square inch can be put on before the ferrules 
are screwed into the stuffing box. When the hydrostatic test is complete 
the ferrules are screwed in hard against the metallic packers. The number 
of stuffing boxes that can be packed per hour by each man is approximately 
250. Where extra deep stuffing boxes have to be dealt with, a fibre or other 
suitable spacer ring can be inserted first in the bottom of the box, and the 
John Crane metallic packer caulked in on the top of this ring. It is necessary 
to space the ferrule correctly with regard to the clearance between the end 
of the tube and the shoulder of the ferrule. 



CHAPTER II 


Low-level Jet Condensers 

A jet condenser is a much simpler and a less costly piece of apparatus 
than a surface condenser, and would be installed frequently were it not 
for the fact that the condensed steam, which is pure distilled water and 
when properly treated an ideal boiler feed, is thrown to waste in the cooling 
water. The jet condenser should only be installed when the cooling water 
itself is, or can be, easily and cheaply made suitable for boiler feed, or when 
a cheap source of boiler feed water is available. 

In jet condensers the steam to be condensed and the cooling water are 
intimately mixed by the breaking up of the water into a rain or spray, and 
allowing this rain to fall down through the body of the steam, or by discharg¬ 
ing the water through suitably shaped nozzles into the body of the steam. 
These nozzles atomize the water by the sudden release of pressure and 
give a finely divided spray, thus presenting a large water surface to the 
steam and ensuring a rapid and complete condensation. 

The quantity of the cooling water depends on its temperature, on the 
mass and temperature of the steam to be condensed, and the temperature 
of the hotwell. Since the supply of water to the boiler (feed water) is 
usually taken from the hotwell, it is obviously an advantage for the hotwell 
to be as warm as possible. The cooling water used should only be just 
sufficient to produce the desired vacuum. 

Some makers give a contra-flow to the steam and water; the steam 
enters at the bottom and flows upwards, while the water enters at the top 
and falls downwards; the air pump connection is at the top where the air 
is coldest. Other makers give a parallel flow to the steam and water by 
discharging the cooling water downwards through nozzles into the body 
of the steam; the steam and water entering at the top and passing to the 
bottom where the mixture is withdrawn by an extraction pump, a special 
compartment being provided for the cooling of the air. 

The parallel-flow arrangement is generally best suited for turbine work 
where the exhaust comes from the underside of the turbine. 

The quantity of condensing water required is given by equation (16) 
p. 16, viz., 

G = [W(jL + h -t 2 )]/[ 6oo(T 2 - Tj)]. 

Since, in a jet condenser, the steam and cooling water mix together 

77 



78 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


the temperature of the cooling water will be the temperature of the condensate, 
i.e. t 2 = T 2 , 

A G = [W( ff L + t x - T 2 )]/[6oo(T 2 - T x )].(37) 


It is customary practice to have a small temperature difference between 
the outgoing water and the incoming steam of 2° to 4 0 F., that is, the value 
of {t x — T 2 ) in equation (37) is 2° to 4 0 F. 

The cause of this temperature difference is the presence of air, which 
forms a blanket on the surface of the water drops as the steam condenses in 
a manner similar to that by which the air blanket is formed round the 
tubes of a surface condenser. With a jet condenser arranged contra-flow 
or with an air cooler it is possible, however, to attain a temperature difference 
approaching zero. With the contra-flow type of condenser there is a great 
air cooling effect, due to the air passing upwards and being progressively 
cooled by the falling condensing water which is being progressively heated; 
the net result of the arrangement being that the air leaves the condenser 
at a much lower temperature than the vacuum temperature, so that the air 
pump can effectively deal with the air and maintain the partial air pressure 
at the water outlet approximately zero. 

To get the same results with an air pump only, i.e. without this air 
cooling effect, the cost and size of the pump would be prohibitive. 

Allowing then a temperature difference of 2 0 F. for a contra-flow con¬ 


denser, and taking the heat contents of the steam as 1000 B.Th.U., equation 


(37) becomes: 


G = (ioo2W)/[6oo(T 2 - T,)] 


(38) 


The quantity of condensing water G, as found from equation (37), makes 
no allowance for the air cooling and vapour condensing effect, and to the 
above quantity must be added a further quantity which may be found 
thus: 

Let t a be the temperature of the air leaving the condenser in degrees F.; 
G*, the quantity of condensing water necessary for air cooling and 
vapour condensing (gallons per minute); 

L, the latent heat of the vapour at temperature T 2 ; 

y, the specific heat of the air — 0*2375; an d 

m, the mass of air being dealt with in pounds per hour. 


The problem here is the same as that for an air cooler in a surface con¬ 
denser, so that the mass of vapour condensed out will be given by equation 

( 32 ), P- 42 : M , = (V la /V Xj - V^fV^m. 

The heat given up by this mass of vapour condensing out and the air 
in cooling will be found from equation (33), p. 42: 

H = m[L(V Xa /V Xs - V 2a /V 2s ) + y(T 2 - t a )], 

(T 2 — 4) being the fall in temperature of the air. 





LOW-LEVEL JET CONDENSERS 


79 


The heat taken up by the water is 

H = 6 ooG a (T 2 - T x ). 

Equating these equal quantities of heat we get: 

G a = [w{L(V la /V lt - V 2 a /V 2 s) + y(T 2 - t a )}]/[ 6 oo(T 2 - T x )]. . .(39) 

The total quantity of cooling water necessary then is G + G a . 

Example .—A jet condenser of the contra-flow type is to condense 76,000 
lb. of steam per hour at a vacuum of 28 in. Hg. The inlet temperature of 
the condensing water is 6o° F., and from considerations of air pump capacity 
the temperature of the air and vapour leaving the condenser must not exceed 
65° F. The air to be extracted is 60 lb. per hour. Assume the vacuum at 
the air-suction branch to be 28-1 in. Hg. Calculate the total quantity of 
condensing water required. 

From equation (38) the condensing water necessary for the condensation 
of the steam only is 

G = (ioo2\V)/[6oo(T 2 - T x )]. 

Now T 2 is taken 2 0 F. lower than the vacuum temperature, i.e. 

To = 101 — 2 
= 99° F. 

G = (76,000 X ioo2)/[6oo(99 — 60)] 

= 3253 gall, per minute. 

Before equation (39) can be solved, v la and must first be found. As 
before, we have from equation (28), 

V,. = [30 X 12-39(459-6 + 99 )]/[( 2 8-i3 - 28) (459-6 + 32)] 

= 3248 c. ft. per pound of air. 

v 2a = [30 X 12-39(459-6 + 65)]/[(29-38 - 28-1) (459-6 + 32)] 

= 310 c. ft. per pound. 

From the steam tables: 

v„ = 361 c. ft. per pound, 

= 1024 c - ft- P er pound, 
and L — 1036-2. 

Then substituting these values in equation (39) we get: 

G a = [60] 1036-2(3140/361 — 309/1024) + 0-2375(99 - 6 5)}]/[ 6oo (99 — 60)] 
= [60(9009 + 8-07)]/(600 x 39) 

= 23*12 gall, per minute. 

The total quantity of condensing water therefore will be 

= 3253 + 23-12 
= 3276-12 gall, per minute, 

= say, 3276 gall, per minute. 



8 o 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


Example .—The following figures were taken during the test of a contra¬ 
flow jet condenser. Find the mass of air and vapour being dealt with by the 
air pump. 

Quantity of condensing water entering condenser, 2500 gall, per minute. 
Vacuum in exhaust branch, 27*5 in. Hg. 

Temperature of condensate, 104° F. 

Inlet temperature of condensing water, 65° F. 

Temperature of air suction branch, 75 0 F. 

Vacuum at air suction branch, 27*64 in. Hg. 

Quantity of steam condensed, 58,120 lb. per hour. 

From equations (38) and (39): 

(G + G.) = [ioo 2 W]/[6oo(T 2 - Tj)] 

+ [m{L(V 10 /V ls - V 2a /V 2s ) + y(T 2 - 0 }]/[ 6oo(T 2 - T,)]. 

As before we have: 

= [(30 X 12-39) ( 459 ‘ 6 + i° 4 )]/[( 27 ' 8 i - 275) ( 459 <6 + 3 2 )] 

= 1375 c. ft. per pound of air; 

V 2 a = L( 3 ° X 12-39) ( 459-6 + 75)]/[(29-i3 - 27-64) (459-6 + 3 2 )] 

= 271 c. ft. per pound of air; 

(G + G„) — 2500 gall, per minute; 

T! - 65° F; 

T 2 — 104° F; 

U = 75 ° F ; 

L = 1033-4 B.Th.U.; 

W = 58,120 lb. per hour; 

V xs = 313-3 c. ft. per pound; 

V,, — 743 c. ft. per pound. 

Substituting these values in the above equation we get: 

2500 = [58,120 x ioo2]/[6oo(io4—65)] 

+[m{ 1033-4(1375/313-3—271/743)4-0-2375(104—75) )]/[6oo(io 4 — 65)]; 
58,500,000 = 58,236,240 4- 4 i 57 ? «: 
or m — 263,760/4157 

= 63*4 lb. of air per hour. 

The mass of vapour being dealt with by the air pump can now be cal¬ 
culated from equation (32): 

M, = (V la /V ls - V 2a /V 2 > 

= ( I 375 / 3 I 3‘3 - 271/743)63-4 
= 255*1 lb. of vapour per hour. 


The total mass of air and vapour being dealt with by the air pump will 
then be . , 

= 255-1 + 63-4 

= 318-5 lb. per hour. 



LOW-LEVEL JET CONDENSERS 


81 


In jet condensers the mass of air (m) which has to be extracted from the 
condenser may be divided into three parts: one part being the air which leaks 
into the vacuum system, a second part the air which comes over with the 
steam, and the third part the air which comes in with the condensing water. 
As is well known, water which has been exposed to the atmosphere contains 
air and small quantities of other gases in solution. The quantity of air so held 
in solution depends upon the treatment the water has received while exposed 
to the atmosphere. For instance, if water be taken from a mountain stream 
and the dissolved air in it be measured, the quantity will be found to be about 
3 per cent by volume. If, however, water be taken from the open hotwell 
of a steam condensing plant, the quantity of dissolved air will be found to 
be about 0*5 per cent by volume. These are extreme cases, and in general 
it will be found that the colder the water and the greater the agitation to which 
the water has been subjected, the greater will be the absorption of air up to 
a limit of about 3 per cent by volume. 

The cooling water, then, supplied to a jet condenser contains normally 
a large percentage of dissolved air, and under the combined influence 
of the vacuum, the breaking up of the water, and the heating which 
takes place in the condenser this air is liberated and has to be dealt 
with by the air pump. 

When a jet condensing plant is installed, the boiler is usually fed with 
raw water, and the air held in solution in the boiler feed ultimately comes 
over with the steam to the condenser. 


DIAMETER OF THE COOLING WATER INLET PIPE FOR A 
CONTRA-FLOW JET CONDENSER 

With the low-level jet condenser it is customary practice to rely on the 
vacuum drawing cooling water into the condenser from the river or pond. 
The necessary area of the cooling water inlet pipe is governed by the head 
against which the water has to be lifted, the vacuum, and the loss of head 
due to friction in the length of the cooling water inlet pipe. 

Let the following diagram (fig. 36) illustrate our condenser. 



( D 450) 


Fig. 36.—Low-level Jet Condenser 


6 






82 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


Let H be the head in feet from the water-level in the pond or river to the 
top of the water inlet branch on the condenser; 

/>, the absolute pressure in the condenser in inches of mercury, i.e. 30 in. 
minus the vacuum; 

/, the total length of the piping in feet; 
n y the number of right-angled bends; 

D, the internal diameter of the pipe in feet; 

Vy the water velocity in the pipe in feet per second; 

G, the quantity of cooling water passing in gallons per minute; 

F, the total friction loss in the piping; and 
H x , the head causing flow at the inlet branch. 


Then the head causing flow at the inlet branch into the condenser will 
be the head equivalent to the condenser vacuum less the lift H and the 
friction loss, 

i.e. H x = [(30 - p) 147 X 2-31/30 - H — F. 


The friction F is made up of the friction losses at the entrance to the 
pipe and in the bends. The entrance loss may be neglected if the end 
of the pipe is bell-mouthed; if a strainer is fitted to the end of the pipe 
the friction loss across the strainer should be added. 

For practical purposes the losses at the bends may be computed by 
allowing for every easy right-angled bend a length of straight pipe of 10 to 
15 diameters, and for every sharp right-angled bend 30 to 36 diameters. 
These lengths are in agreement with the results of a number of experiments 
carried out at the Yorkshire College. (See Engineering , 25th September, 
1896, p. 390.) 

The friction in the straight lengths of the pipe may be found from the 

usual formula: TT , , 7 9X// N 

H/> = (flv*)l(2gm), 


where / is a constant depending on the roughness of the inside of the pipe, 
and for ordinary cast-iron piping may be taken at o-oi; and m is the hydraulic 
mean depth which, for a circular pipe, is D/4. 

The head H x causing flow will then be, for a bell-mouth inlet with no 
strainer, 

Hi = 1-127(30 —p) — U — [(4 fv 2 ){l + (i5«D)}]/|>£D]... .(40) 


The velocity of flow v will be that due to the effective head H 1( and is 
given by the relation 

v — 2gH x ft. per second. 

The quantity of water flowing will be 

Q = (itD 2 w)/4 c. ft. per second, or, in gallons per minute, 

G = (wD 2 ©6o)/( 4 x 6-23) 

= (wDV)/o-4i5. 



LOW-LEVEL JET CONDENSERS 


8 


O 


Example I. —Find the quantity of cooling water which will be drawn into 
a contra-flow jet condenser by the vacuum from a pond situated ioo yd. 
from the condenser through a 6-in. bore pipe. The vertical distance from 
the water-level in the pond to the top of the cooling water inlet branch on 
the condenser is 12 ft., and the vacuum in the condenser is 26 in. Hg with a 
30 in. Hg barometer. There are five right-angled bends in the cooling 
water pipe. 

From equation (40) the head H x causing flow will be: 

H x = 1-127(30 — 4) — 12- {^ 2 /(2?)}[(4 X 0-01/0-5)(3 12 + 5 X 15 X °'5)] 
= 29*3 — 12 — 27*96 X V 2 I ( 2 g ) 

= 17-3 — 27-96 X V*l( 2 g). 

Now H x = v 2 I(2g), 

and H x = 17*3 — 2j-g6v 2 l(2g). 

v 2 /(2g) = 17 -3 - 27-96 z> 2 /(2g), 

i.e. v = v/(i7’3 x 2g)/2 8-96 
= 6*i8 ft. per second. 

Then G = (77D 2 ^)/o*4i5 

= (7 r x 0*25 X 6*i8)/o*4i5 
= 11*69 § a ^* P er 


Example 2 .—In the preceding example find the temperature of the water 
in the pond which will cause the flow of cooling water to stop, and the vacuum 
in the condenser when the flow ceased. 

If the temperature of the pond gradually rises the vacuum in the con¬ 
denser will gradually fall, and this fall in vacuum will cause the quantity 
being drawn in to gradually diminish till a condition is reached such that 
the vacuum will balance the static head H l5 and the flow into the condenser 
will cease. The water will momentarily stand up the pipe the height H and 
be suspended there like a water barometer. The problem then is to find 
the temperature which corresponds to the water vapour pressure of (34 — H), 
34 ft. being taken as the height of the water barometer. 

The absolute pressure in pounds per square inch at the top of the water 

column will be /TT \, 

= 147 - (H X i 47)/34 

= r 47 - (12 X i 47)/34 
= H 7 ~ 5 -i 9 
= 9*51 lb. per square inch. 


The temperature which corresponds to this absolute pressure of 9-51 lb. 
per square inch is obtained from the steam tables, namely, 190*54° F. 

This is the theoretical temperature, but actually the flow would cease 
before this temperature was reached, because of the air in the cooling water. 
The vacuum in the condenser when the flow ceased would be 

= 30 — (97 1 X 3o)/i47 
= 3 ° - T 9'4 
= xo-6 in. of mercury. 



8 4 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


HEAD OF WATER IN TRAYS OF CONTRA-FLOW JET 

CONDENSERS 


The contra-flow jet condenser is normally arranged with two or three 
water trays perforated with holes to break up the water. Sufficient water 
head must be arranged over the trays to ensure that they are always full. 

Let fig. 37 represent such a condenser having two trays. Taking the 
top tray first: 



Let h y , h->, &c., be the head over the successive rows of holes in feet. 

Let A x , A 2 , &c., be the respective total areas of the successive rows of 
holes in square feet. 

Let G be the quantity of cooling water passing in gallons per minute. 

It is customary to allow about 50 per cent of the cooling water to flow 
over the top of the tray, so that the total quantity of cooling water which 
flows through the holes will be o^G. 

At the first row the water velocity leaving the holes will be 

Vy — */ighy ft. per second, 
and the quantity passing the row will be 

AyVy — Ay*/2gky c. ft. per second, 
or, allowing a coefficient of discharge of 0-62, 

AyVy = O 62 Ays/lghy. 



LOW-LEVEL JET CONDENSERS 


85 


Similarly, at the second row we have 

A 2 v 2 = o-6zA 2 \/2gh 2 , 

and so on for any number of rows. 

The total quantity passing the rows will be: 

Ai^i + A 2 v 2 + &c. = o-o2{A 1 x/ 2 gh x + A 2 \f zgh 2 + &c.}, 
i.e. (0*5 X G X io)j(()0 X 62-3) = o*62{A 1 V / 2 gh ± + A 2 \f 2gh 2 + &c.}. 

.*. G = 463*5 {A x v/2 g\ + A 2 \/2gh 2 + &c.} gall, per minute. 

If n 2y &c., be the number of holes in the successive rows, and A the 
area of each hole, the above equation becomes: 

G = 463*5A {n^s/2gh t + n 2 s/zgh 2 + &c.} gall, per minute.. .(41) 

When the design of this tray is laid out on the drawing board, the number 
of holes in each successive row should be arranged so that the above equation 
is satisfied. 

For the second tray we have, allowing 50 per cent of the water to flow over 
the top of the tray, 

G — 4fiy$An\/ 2 gh gall, per minute. 

The head of water from the still water-level to the top edge of tray should 
be from 1^ to 3 in., but not more than 3 in. 

The water flowing over the top edge of the tray will take up a free vortex 
motion partially destroyed by the incoming water from the inlet branch. 

If D be the top diameter of the tray in feet, and H the head over the top 
of the tray in feet, we get 

(°'SG)/(6o X 6-23) = Cjrr/ 4 X D 2 X s/ 2^H, 
i.e. G= 2gW gall, per minute.(42) 

Where is the coefficient of discharge, and varies with the ratio of H 
to D, the experimental values of C d for various ratios of H to D are: 


H/D 

0*2 

0-3 

o -4 

°'S 

o*6 

0-7 

c d 

q 

M 

00 

0-195 

0*21 

0-235 

0*28 

o -35 


The diameter of the bottom tray is generally fixed up from considerations 
of the available space inside the shell, and if 50 per cent of the cooling water 
is arranged to pass through the bottom holes the head over the top edge of 
the tray will adjust itself according to the fixed diameter of the tray. 

Example .—In the lay-out of a contra-flow jet condenser there are six 
rows of J in. diameter holes at respective heads of 6, 8, 10, 12, 14, and 16 in. 





86 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


The quantity of cooling water passing is 700 gall, per minute. Arrange 
the depth of water over the top of the top tray to be 3 in. Find the 
necessary number of holes in each row so that 50 per cent of the cooling 
water passes through the holes and the other 50 per cent through the 
diameter D at the top of the top tray. 

From equation (42) we have 

G = 5 8 7 C d D 3 v /^H, 
i.e. D = VG/(s/ s8yC d x t/zgH). 

Provisionally fix the ratio H/D at o-2, then C d = 0-185 (from table); 

and D = \/7oo/(V64’4 x 3/12 X V587 x 0-185) 

= 1*268 ft. 

= 15*216 in. 

= say 15I- in. 

The ratio H/D, therefore, is 3/15*25 = 0*19, that provisionally used 
was o*2, so that the proper coefficient of discharge will be between 0*195 
and 0*185, an( i ma y be found by trial and error; the above diameter of 
15*25 in. is, however, sufficiently near for practical purposes. 

Again, from equation (41) 

G = 463‘5 A 2 gh x + n 2 s/ 2gh 2 + &c.}. 

This equation does not solve the problem completely, since n ly 7 * 2 , &c., 
are unknown. Generally, the quickest way to satisfy the equation is to 
assume a circumferential pitch of holes, and fix the number of holes in 
(n — 1) rows, then find the quantity of watei passing this number of rows; 
the total quantity passing, less the quantity passing (n — i) rows, gives 
the quantity passing the remaining rows. 

Let us fix the number of holes in the top five rows, and let the assumed 
pitch be 5 in. From the drawing of this tray the pitch circle diameters 
of the respective rows were 15, 18, 22, 26, 30. and 34 in. The number 
of holes in the rows, beginning from the top, will therefore be n x = 9, 
t* 2 = 11, n s = 14,7*4 = 16, and 7*5 = 19. 

The quantity g ± admitted by the first or top row will be: 

81 = K4 6 3-5 x 0-1 96 X 8/144) x VVx 
= 5'°5 x 0-707 x 9/2 
= 16*05 g a ^* P er minute. 


For the second row: 

ft = ix 5-05 x V8/12 X 11 
= 5-05 x 0-816 x 11/2 
= 22-65 g a ^- P er minute. 



LOW-LEVEL JET CONDENSERS 


87 


For the third row: 

£3 = l X 5-05 x s/ 10/12 X 14 
= 5‘°5 X o* 9 I 3 X 14/2 
— 32*25 gall, per minute. 

For the fourth row: 

£4 = i X 5*05 X s/ 12/12 X 16 
= 40*4 gall, per minute. 

For the fifth row: 

g 5 = i x 5-05 x V14/12 x 19 
= 5*05 X 1*08 X 19/2. 

= 51*8 gall, per minute. 

The quantity to be admitted at the sixth row of holes will therefore be: 

gt = 35° ~ 5 ^ ~ 4°*4 “ 32*25 — 22*65 - 16-05 
= 35° ~ 163*15 
= 186*85 g a ll- P er minute. 

The number of holes in the sixth row which will pass this quantity is: 

= $-os\/ 16/12 X w 6 , 

i.e. n 6 = (2 X i86-85)/(5*05 x 1*154) 

= say 64 holes. 

This number of holes would give a pitch of 1*81 in. in the sixth row. 
This pitch is too close, the assumed pitch of 5 in. must therefore be 
decreased. 

NECESSARY VOLUME OF CONTRA-FLOW JET 
CONDENSER 

The volumetric capacity of a contra-flow jet condenser should not be 
less than a fourth of the volume of the cylinder or cylinders exhausting 
into it, and need not be more than a half of the volume. If the engine be 
a very quick running one, a third of the capacity is generally sufficient. 

For turbine work or where the steam supply is continuous and not in¬ 
termittent, like the exhaust from a reciprocating engine, a capacity based 
on 0*008 to 0*011 c. ft. per pound of steam per hour gives reasonable results. 
The objection to a large condenser is that it takes a long time to raise the 
vacuum, and the first cost is high, while the objection to a small condenser 
is its liability to flooding and overflowing to the engine cylinders. For 
this reason jet condensers are usually fitted with an automatic vacuum 
breaker, so arranged that should the water rise dangerously high the 



88 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


vacuum is broken. These vacuum breakers are usually float operated, 
the float rising with the water and opening a valve which permits atmo¬ 
spheric air to enter the condenser and so break the vacuum. 

NECESSARY AREA OF SPRAY NOZZLES IN PARALLEL- 
FLOW CONDENSER 

As was stated on p. 77 the parallel-flow condenser employs spray 
nozzles in place of perforated trays to break up the cooling water and give 
good mixing of the steam and water. The pressure drop across these 
spray nozzles varies with the make of condenser, and should not exceed 
6 in. Hg. 

If A be the area of each nozzle in square inches; 

H x , the pressure drop in feet, or effective head; 

C d , the coefficient of discharge; 

G, the quantity of cooling water in gallons per minute; and 

N, the number of nozzles, 

we have the following relation: 

G = 2-6NQA \^2gR x gall. per minute.(43) 

The value of C d varies with the design of nozzle, but should not be less 
than o*8. 

If v v be the nozzle velocity, then the equation for the head causing flow 
through the spray nozzles into the condenser will be found from equation (40): 

H x = 1-127(30 - p) - H — [(4/^) (/ + i 5 «D)]/[2£D], 

Example .—A parallel-flow jet condenser has to maintain a vacuum of 
28 in. (barometer 30 in.). The cooling water is to be drawn from a pond 
having a temperature of 75 0 F., and the height from the inlet cooling water 
branch on the condenser to the water-level in the pond is 15 ft. The cool¬ 
ing water inlet pipe is 4 in. bore and 80 yd. long, and has four right-angled 
bends in it. The total area past the nozzles is 4 sq. in. Calculate the 
effective head, and find the quantity of cooling water which will be drawn 
into the condenser in gallons per minute, assuming a value for C d of 0*75. 


From equation (43) we have: 



G = 2-6 x 4 X 075V2 gK 


= 62 , 4 'v/H 1 . 

Now 

v/v v = nozzle area/pipe area, 

or 

v = v v X 4/12-56; 

also 

= ^2gH 1 , 

or 

Hi = V v */2g. 




8g 


LOW-LEVEL JET CONDENSERS 

Then, substituting these values in equation (40), we get: 

v v 2 /2g = 1-127(3° — 2) — 15 — [(4 X o-oi x v 2 x 0-3192 X i2)/(64'4 x 4)] 
x [240 + (15 x 4 x 4)/i2] 

= 31-56 — 15 — o-0493®„ 2 ; 
v v 2 = 256; 

v v = 16 ft. per second. 

Then, substituting these values in the equation for H l5 we get: 

Hi = 256/64-4 

= 3-97 *• 

The quantity of cooling water drawn in will be: 

G = 6 2 - 4 v/H^ 

= 62-4 X \/3-97 
= 124*3 gall, per minute. 

Example .—A parallel-flow, low-level jet condenser is to maintain a 
vacuum of 29 in. with cooling water at 50° F. The quantity of steam to 
be condensed is 8000 lb. per hour, and the steam is 89 per cent dry. The 
low-water level in the river from which the water is to be drawn is 8 ft. 
below the water inlet branch on the condenser. The cooling water pipe 
has a 7-in. bore and is 40 ft. long, and there are six easy bends in it. Cal¬ 
culate the necessary area past the spray nozzles. Assume that the outlet 
water temperature is 3 0 F. lower than the vacuum temperature. 

First, find the quantity of cooling water necessary to condense the steam. 
From the equation (37) we have: 

G = [W(L<7 + t, - T 2 )]/[6oo(T 2 - TO], 
i.e. G = [8000(1047*3 x 0*89 + 79 — 76)]/[6oo(76 — 50)] 

— 479 gall, per minute. 

The water velocity through the cooling water inlet pipe is, 

v = (4790 x i44)/(62*3 x 60 x 38*5) 

= 4*79 ft. per second. 

From equation (40) we find: 

H 1 = 1-127(30 — 1) — 8 - [{4 X 0-01(4-78)2 X I 2 }/( 2 £ X 7)] 
X [ 4 ° + (15 X 6 x 7)/ I2 l, 
i.e. H x = 22*43 ft. 

From equation (43) we have: 

G = 2-6NC d Av / 2pf 1 , 
or NA = G/(2-6C d v/^H 1 ). 

Taking C d — 0-9 we get: 

NA = 479^ 1 ( 2-6 x 0-9 x 38) 

= 5-39 sq. in. 



go 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


AIR COOLERS IN PARALLEL-FLOW CONDENSERS 

An air cooler is usually fitted to a parallel-flow condenser when the 
condenser is designed for a high vacuum. As will be explained later the 
cooler is not so necessary for low vacua. The cooler is usually formed 
by a portion of the steam space being partitioned off and fitting a water 
jet or spray to the top of this portion, the jet being discharged downwards 
while the air and vapour pass upwards, thereby giving a contra-flow effect 
to the water and air. The air suction branch is taken from above the 
jet where the temperature is least. The cooling water is usually taken 
from the main cooling water inlet supply. The problems of air cooling and 
vapour condensing follow the same laws and rules as those given for the 
contra-flow condenser on pp. 78 and 79. 

HICK-BREGUET LOW-LEVEL JET CONDENSER 

Fig. 38 shows a section of a Hick-Breguet low-level, parallel-flow jet 
condenser as manufactured by Messrs. Hick Hargreaves, Bolton, under 

Delaportes Patent. The cooling water 
enters by the branch A and is sprayed 
through the spray nozzles B by the 
vacuum; the steam enters by C and, 
mixing with the finely divided spray 
from the nozzles, is condensed and falls 
with the injection or cooling water to 
the large sump D formed in the bottom 
of the condenser. The water is with¬ 
drawn by the rotary water extraction 
pump E and discharged to the pond 
or river. The air is withdrawn through 
the cooler F, via the outlet branch G, by 
the Hick-Breguet ejector H. The water 
spray for the air cooler is shown at J, 
while K is the partition forming the 
cooler. L is a hollow float operating the 
water sealed vacuum breaker valve M. 
The air which breaks the vacuum in the 
condenser enters by the external pipe N, so that this air enters the con¬ 
denser above the water-level quite independently of the height to which 
the water may rise. 

The special features and advantages claimed by the makers for this 
condenser are: 

1. The brass nozzles spraying the injection or cooling water into the 
condenser in the form of two intersecting cones ensure complete mixture 
of the steam and water. 



Fig. 38 .—Hick-Breguet Low-level Jet 
Condenser 



LOW-LEVEL JET CONDENSERS 


9i 


2. The injection or cooling water being admitted through annular 
chambers to the spray nozzles gives a clear passage for the exhaust steam. 

3. The design of the vacuum breaker ensures the free access of air to 
the condenser quite independently of the height to which the water-level 
may rise. 


Fig. 39 indicates how effectively these spray 
water to give a finely divided spray, so that 
as large a water surface as possible is presented 
to the steam; the nozzles are spiral and made 
of a special bronze, which is claimed to resist 
the eroding action of the water for many 
years. 

These condensers are guaranteed by their 
makers to give a vacuum of 99-5 per cent 
of the theoretical vacuum on load, and the 
temperature of the condenser is guaranteed 
to be uniform throughout. 

The following table gives the test figures 
of one of the above multi-jet type condensers 
manufactured by Messrs. Hick Hargreaves, 
Bolton. The condenser was working in con¬ 
junction with a 2000 kw. turbo-alternator. 


nozzles break up the cooling 



Fig. 39—Nozzle for Hick-Breguet 
Jet Condenser 



Load in 
Kilowatts. 

Vacuum in 
Inches Hg. 

Barometer 
in Inches 
Hg. 

Temperatures. 

Quantity of 
Cooling 
Water, 
Gallons 
per Min. 

wSSt, discharge. 
Degrees F. Degrees F. 

Figures guaranteed 

2000 

: 27-5 

3 ° 

1 

O 

00 

— 

Figures attained on\ 
test .. .. j 

2000 

27-8 

3 ° 

83 100 

1 

I 933 


Taking the test figures, the vacuum corresponding to ioo° F. is 
28-05 m • Hg, and the attained vacuum was 27-8 in. Hg. 

The percentage vacuum attained of the theoretical is therefore 

= (27-8 x ioo)/28-o5 = 99*ii percent. 

The partial air pressure is 28-05 — 27-8 = 0-25 in. Hg. 

The coefficient of performance (see p. 47) 

= <T 2 - T X )/(T S -T c + 10) 

= (100 — 83)/(io4 — 100 + 10). 

= 1-214. 




92 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


MIRRLEES LOW-LEVEL JET CONDENSERS 

Fig. 40 shows in section the latest type of low-level jet condenser as 
manufactured by Messrs. The Mirrlees Watson Company. 

This condenser is of the parallel-flow type with integral water extraction 
pumps and air pump situated at the bottom. The exhaust steam enters 
at the top A, and immediately under the exhaust inlet flange an injection 


A 



Fig. 40.—Mirrlees Low-level Jet Condenser 


water inlet belt or chamber B is arranged round the exhaust pipe. S is the 
injection water inlet. A cylindrical skirt C is fitted inside the shell, and 
is perforated with holes D, so that the injection water is discharged into 
the body of the steam and ensures complete intermingling. The combined 
mass of injection water and steam falls through the cone piece E, where 
the greater part of the steam is condensed, to the bottom of the condenser 
and enters the impellers of the double water-extraction pumps F. The 
air, vapour, and non-condensable ga°es receive a compression in the cone E 



LOW-LEVEL JET CONDENSERS 


93 


by the velocity of the incoming steam, and then flow upwards outside the 
cone piece E to the air suction G. The air pump H is of the Mirrlees-Le 
Blanc rotary water-jet type, and is arranged on the same shaft as the water- 
extraction pumps and driven by the same motor. The air pump suction 
branch J is connected by cast-iron piping to the condenser air suction G, 
and no integral air cooler is fitted. With this type of air pump the neces- 



Fig. 41.—Mirrlees Multi-jet Condenser, equipped with Mirrlees-Leblanc Rotary Air Pump 
and Centrifugal Water-extraction Pump with Coupling for Connection to Electric Motor, 

Steam Engine, or Steam Turbine. 

sity for such a cooler disappears, because the air pump is of the water-jet 
type, and being such its supply of jet water is cold. This cold water per¬ 
forms the function of an air cooler by condensing a large proportion 
of the associated vapour, and at the same time cooling the air. This ar¬ 
rangement of integral water-extraction pumps gives a compact arrangement 
by avoiding the necessity for external piping between the bottom of the 
condenser and the water-extraction pumps; it also avoids the common 
trouble of the extraction pumps becoming deprimed by air leakage at the 




94 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


glands. Should such leakage take place with this arrangement, the air leaks 
into the condenser direct, and will thus pass to the air suction instead of 
having to flow 7 along the suction pipe to the condenser in a direction oppo¬ 
site to the flow of the water, thus damming the water back in the condenser 
and preventing its free flow to the extraction pump. A large end cover 
K is fitted, so that the impellers are easily withdrawn for overhaul. A float 



Fig. 42.—Mirrlees Mulu-jet Condenser 


operated automatic vacuum breaker is fitted to act if the water rises to a 
dangerous height. L is a hollow copper float which will rise on the surface 
of the rising water, and open the valve M by means of the lever N and admit 
atmospheric air to the chamber O. The chamber O is in communication 
with the top of the condenser by the pipe P and the duct R, formed in the 
skirt C and cone piece E. When the float rises atmospheric air will be 
drawn into the top of the condenser and above the surface of the water, 
so that the air meets with no undue resistance; the vacuum therefore will 
be quickly broken. 




LOW-LEVEL JET CONDENSERS 95 

Fig. 41 (p. 93) shows a photograph of one of these low-level jet con¬ 
densers, taken from the air pump end. 

When the conditions of the station warrant, Messrs. The Mirrlees 
Watson Company fit their steam-jet operated air ejectors to these low-level 
jet condensers in place of the rotary water-jet air pumps. In this case, 
however, they arrange a small air cooler or devaporizer integral with the 
condenser and in a manner similar to that described on p. 90. 

Fig. 42 shows the arrangement when a steam-jet operated air ejector is 
fitted. This is a smaller plant than that shown in fig. 41, and only a single 
impeller is employed on the water-extraction pump. 

These condensers are designed for a temperature difference of 4 0 F. 
(see p. 78), between the temperature of the discharge water and the tem¬ 
perature corresponding to the vacuum, when the difference between the 
inlet water temperature and the vacuum temperature does not exceed 40° F. 
For differences of from 40° F. to 50° F. the temperature difference between 
the discharge water and the vacuum temperature is 5 0 F., and from 50° F. 
to 6o° F. the difference is 7 0 F., and from 6o° F. to higher temperatures 
the difference is 9 0 F. The heat absorbed by the cooling water is assumed to 
be 1000 B.Th.U. per pound of steam condensed. 

The following figures taken at site from a large Mirrlees-Le Blanc multi¬ 
jet condensing plant have been supplied to the author by Messrs. The Mirr¬ 
lees Watson Company. 


Barometer in 
Inches Hg. 

Vacuum in 
Inches Hg. 

Vacuum Cor¬ 
rected to 

30 in. Hg 
Barometer, 
Inches Hg. 

Temperature 
Corresponding 
to Corrected 
Vacuum, 
Degrees F. 

Inlet Water 
Temperature, 
Degrees F. 

Outlet 
Water Tem¬ 
perature, 
Degrees F 

Load in 
Kilowatts. 

29-5 

28-5 

29*0 

79'3 

48 

70 

3000 

2 9'5 

28*4 

28*9 

82-5 

49 

76 

385° 

29-5 

28-3 

28*8 

85-0 

49 

81 

4500 

29-49 

28*2 

28*7I 

00 

<1 

6 

49 

84 

5350 


The full load condition for the plant was 6000 kw. The vacuum pro¬ 
ducing apparatus was a Mirrlees steam-ejector air pump. 

The partial air pressure at the highest load is: 

vacuum corresponding to 84° F. — 2871 in. Hg, 

= 28*83 — 28*71 
= 0*12 in. Hg. 

This low partial air pressure shows the ability of the air pump to reduce 
the air pressure to the lowest limits, and indicates that the plant is air-tight. 

The depression of the condensate temperature below the vacuum tem¬ 
perature is at the highest load 87 — 84 = 3 0 F., and at the lowest load 
79*3 — 70 = 9*3° F. This difference of condensate depression temperature 




96 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


indicates the presence of a greater quantity of air entering the condenser 
at the lower loads; this is also proved by the air pressure at the lowest 
load which is, 

vacuum corresponding to 70° F. — 29 in. Hg, 

= 29-26 — 29 
= 0-26 in. Hg. 

The diminution of the partial air pressure as the load increases is 
normally found to take place, and is caused by the more efficient steam 
sealing of the turbine glands at the higher loads, and by the point along the 
expansion curve at which the pressure is atmospheric travelling towards the 
L.P. end of the turbine as the load rises, thus placing fewer joints under 
vacuum. 

The coefficient of performance of this condenser is at the highest load 

= (T 2 — T 1 )/(T S — T c + io) 

= (84 - 49)/( 8 7 -84+ 10) 

= 2*69. 


EXAMPLES ON JET CONDENSERS 

1. A low-level contra-flow condenser is supplied with cooling water at 
a temperature of 6o° F., the difference between the temperature of the water 
being discharged by the extraction pump and the vacuum temperature is 
3 0 F. The recorded vacuum is 28-1 in. Hg, and the barometer reading is 
29-65 in. Hg. The heat contents of the steam entering the condenser as 
measured by a calorimeter were 1010 B.Th.U. per pound reckoned from 
freezing-point. Find the ratio between the quantity of cooling water 
entering the condenser for condensing purposes and the quantity of steam 
condensed. 

Answer. —31*73. 

2. If in the above example the total quantity of air being dealt with by 
the air pump is 80 lb. per hour; the quantity of steam being condensed 
75,000 lb. per hour; and the temperature of the air and vapour leaving the 
condenser is 70° F.; find the ratio between the total quantity of cooling 
water entering the condenser and the quantity of steam condensed. 

Answer .—31*96. 

3. In a low-level multi-jet condensing plant the water-level in the pond 
is 6 ft. above the water inlet branch on the condenser. The inlet water 
pipe is 7 in. bore, 40 ft. long,, and there are six easy right-angled bends in 
it. The vacuum in the condenser is 28 in. Find the pressure drop across 
the spray nozzles or nozzle head when the quantity of water flowing into 
the condenser is 500 gall, per minute. 

Answer .—34*964 ft. 



LOW-LEVEL JET CONDENSERS 97 

4. Find the total area of spray nozzles necessary in the condenser given 
in question 3, assuming a coefficient of discharge of 0*85. 

Answer .—476 sq. in. 

5. In a low-level multi-jet condensing plant, having a separate air- 
cooling compartment, the temperature of the inlet cooling water is 6o° F. 
The vacuum in the condenser is 28 in. Hg, and the water leaving the con¬ 
denser is 2 0 F. lower than the vacuum temperature. The air suction tem¬ 
perature is 70° F. Find the ratio between the quantity of cooling water 
entering the cooler and the mass of air which is being dealt with by the 
air pump. The barometer reading is 29-813 in. Hg. 

Answer. —286-6. 


(D 450) 


7 



CHAPTER III 


High-level Jet Condensers 

The high-level or the barometric condenser is so named because it is 
placed at a height greater than that of the water barometer. The water, 

therefore, will flow out of the 
condenser by gravity and against 
the vacuum in the condenser. 
There is thus no need for a water- 
extraction pump, but a pump 
must be fitted to discharge the 
cooling water up to the water 
inlet branch on the condenser. 

The condenser head as it is 
called, or the condenser proper, 
is supported on a high staging, 
and in general design is similai 
to either the low-level contra-flow 
or parallel-flow types. Some 
makers use the same head for 
their high- and low-level plants, 
and for the parallel-flow type add 
a cone piece to the bottom. The 
water outlet or tail pipe extends 
from the bottom of the con¬ 
denser to the ground-level, and 
has its lower end immersed in a 
sump. 

The rules already given for 
low-level plants for the necessary 
quantity of cooling water, the 
volume of the shell, the air 
Fig. 43.—High-level jet condenser cooler, &c., and all particulars 

pertaining to the condenser head 
itself are applicable to this type. The main new problems which this type 
evokes are the height at which the condenser head must be placed for 
efficient drainage and the capacity of the sump into which the tail pipe 
discharges. 



98 





HIGH-LEVEL JET CONDENSERS 


99 


The capacity of the sump should be such that, when a pump is fitted to 
draw the water from the sump and discharge it to a cooling tower or pond, 
the pump should have at least one minute’s supply before drawing air; the 
depth to which the tail pipe is immersed should be such that, on starting up, 
the water-level over the end of the tail pipe should not be less than 
i ft. 6 in. after the vacuum has drawn the water up and filled the tail pipe. 

The height at which the condenser head must be placed to ensure that the 
water will not be drawn up by the vacuum and get down the exhaust pipe 
can be found as follows: 

Let fig. 43 represent a condenser. 

Let x be the height in feet from the bottom of the exhaust pipe to the 
water-level in the sump; 

p , the absolute pressure in the condenser in inches of mercury; 

F, the friction loss in the tail pipe in feet; 

D, the diameter of the tail pipe in feet; and 
v, the water velocity in the tail pipe in feet per second; 
s , the safety height to ensure water not getting down the exhaust 
pipe. (Usually taken at i ft. 6 in. to 2 ft.) This height also 
includes an allowance for the decrease in density of the water 
owing to increase in temperature. 

Since the water flows against the vacuum pull in the condenser, all the 
losses in friction, in exit velocity, &c., must be added to the vacuum pull, 
so that reckoning on a standard barometer of 30 in. Hg we get: 

x = 1-127(30 — p) -f- F + s + v 2 /(2 g). 

As before, and making the length of the tail pipe l = x, we get: 

F = {(4fo*)/(2gD)}(x+i 5 »D), 

n being the number of bends in the tail pipe. 

Then, substituting in the above equation, we get: 

x = 1-127(30 —p)+s+ {v*/(2g)}[l + (4//D) (x + I5»D)]... .(44) 

Some makers reckon a full barometric head of 34 ft. of water in place 
of the actual condenser vacuum, so that on this reckoning the above formula 
would be: 

* = 34 + 5 + {«*/k)}{i + (4 // d X* + i5« D )}> 

which on reduction becomes 

* = [34 + 5 + {v 2 !(2g)}(l + 6o/«)]/[l — .(45) 

Example I. —A barometric condenser is to maintain a vacuum of 25 in. 
Hg, when dealing with 8000 lb. of exhaust steam per hour, having a dryness 
of 85 per cent. The condensate temperature is to be maintained 4 0 F. lower 
than the vacuum temperature, with cooling water at 70° F. Allowing a water 
velocity in the tail pipe of 5 ft. per second, and a safety height of 2 ft., calculate 




IOO 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


the height x at which the condenser head must be placed. The tail pipe 
has two easy right-angled bends in it. 

The quantity of cooling water will be found from equation (37) (p. 78) 

G = [W(?L + h - T 2 )]/[6oo(T 2 - Tj)] 

= [8000(1021-1 X 0-85 + 126 — 122)] /[6oo(i 22 — 70)] 

= (8000 X 860)/(600 X 52) 

= 223*5 gall, per minute. 


The diameter of the tail pipe will be: 


(W4) X D 2 = 


volume of water passing in cubic feet per second 


velocity of water in feet per second 
i.e. D = V[4(2235/60 + 8000/3600)]/[62*3 X 5 X tt] 
— Vo*i6i4 


= 0*4 ft. 
= 4*8 in. 


Then, putting 5 = 2 ft., we get from equation (44): 

* = 1-127(30 —4)+ 2+ { 5 2 /( 2 ^';}[ i + (4 X 0-01/0-4) (x+ 15 X 2 X 0-4)] 
= 29-3 +2 + 0-854 + 0-0388*, 
i.e. * = 33-5 ft. 

Example 2 .—A barometric jet condenser has a water-level gauge-glass 
fitted to the shell. The water-level shown in the glass measures 34 ft. from 
the water-level in the discharge sump when the engine, exhausting to the 
condenser, is developing 1200 i.h.p. The bore of the tail pipe is 5 in., and 
the vacuum 25*5 in. Hg. The barometer reading is 29*5 in. Hg. The 
temperature of the cooling water entering the condenser is 6o° F., and the 
temperature of the water in the tail pipe 122 0 F. Deduce from the above 
particulars the quantities of cooling water and exhaust steam entering the 
condenser, assuming that the dryness fraction of the exhaust is 0*85. The 
tail pipe has no bends in it. 

The height x will equal the vacuum head plus the velocity head plus the 
friction head, 

i.e. * = 1-127(30 — p) -f iv 2 l(2g)}(i + 4/*/D). 

The absolute pressure p in the condenser will be 29*5 — 25*5 = 4 in. 
of mercury. 

By substituting we get: 

34 = 1-127(30 - 4) + {v 2 l(2g)}[i + (4 X o-oi X 34 X ia)/5] 

= 29-3 + o-o662© 2 , 

or v = 47 /o-o662 

= sTji 

= 8-43 ft. per second. 



HIGH-LEVEL JET CONDENSERS 


IOI 


Since the tail pipe has a 5-in. bore, the total quantity of water Q passing 
down the tail pipe will be 

Q = (19*63 x 8*43 x 6*23 X*6o)/i44 gall, per minute 
= 430 gall, per minute. 

From equation (37), 

G = [W(?L + t 1 - T 2 )]/[6oo(T 2 - T,)] 

= [W(o*85 x io2i*i + 126 — 122)]/T6oo(122 *— 60)]. 

= (8 7 oW)/(6oo x 62) 

= 0-0233W. 

Now Q = G +W/600, 

G = 430 — W/600. 

Then equating these two values of G we get: 

o*o233W = 430 — W/600, 
i.e. W = 18,428 lb. per hour; 
and G will be: 

G = 430 — 18,428/600 
= 399 gall, per minute. 

HORSE-POWER ABSORBED BY CONDENSING WATER PUMP 
FOR BAROMETRIC JET CONDENSER 

Let G be the quantity of condensing water in gallons per minute; 
p , the absolute pressure in the condenser in inches of mercury; 

H, the height of water inlet branch on condenser to water-level in river 
or pond in feet; 

/, the total length of suction and delivery piping; 

D, the internal diameter of piping in feet; 

F, the friction loss; 

v , the water velocity in feet per second; and 

H e , the effective head against which the pump discharges in feet. 

There are two cases to be considered here, one when the vacuum has 
been created in the condenser, and the other when there is no vacuum. The 
first is the normal condition. 

Case 1 .—The effective head H E will be: 

H E = H — 1*127(30 — p) + F + loss at exit. 

As before F = {(^fv 2 )/(2gD)}(l + 15/zD), 
and the loss at exit = v 2 )2g . 

/. H e = H — 1-127(30 — p)+ {(4/® 2 )/( 2 ^ D )} {/ + I 5 » D }+ v*l(2g). 
The water horse-power will be: 
w.h.p. = (ioGH e )/33,ooo, 

= [ioG{H — 1-127(30 — p) + {tifv*)l(2gT>))(l + i5«D) + v 2 /(2g)}] 
-i-.33,000. 



102 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


If the pump efficiency be E the b.h.p. at the pump coupling will be: 

b.h.p. = [ioG{H — 1*129(30 — p) + (^fv 2 j2gD)(l + i5«D) + v 2 /(2g) (] 

-T- (33,oooE). 

Example 3 .—Assuming in the previous example that the height H was 
40 ft., the pump efficiency 70 per cent, and that the pump suction and dis¬ 
charge piping was 5 in. bore and 50 ft. long with four bends in it: find what 
the b.h.p. absorbed at the pump coupling would be. 

The velocity through the 5-in. bore piping will be: 

Case 1 v = 8*4 X 399/430 

= 7*78 ft. per second. 

Then the b.h.p. absorbed will be: 
b.h.p. = [(10 X 399 )/( 33 >°°o X 07)] 

x[40 —1-127X26+{4 Xo oi x6o*6x 12(50+1* X 15 X 4 X 5 )/(64-4 X 5)} +60*6/64*4] 
= (10 X 399 X i8*382)/(33,ooo X 07) 

= 3*i6. 

Case 2 When no vacuum is in the condenser we get: 

b.h.p. = [(10 X 399)/(33 ,°°° X 07)] 

X [40—o+{4xo*oi x 6o*6 x 12(50 + 1* X 15 X4 X 5)/(64*4 X5)} + 60*6/64*4] 
= (10 X 399 X 47732)/(33,ooo X 0*7) 

= 8 * 2 . 

Case 1 is the normal condition, but to allow for a drop in vacuum, due 
to any cause whatever, the motor driving the pump should be capable of 
withstanding a considerable overload without undue heating of the coils. 

The above example shows that if the vacuum be entirely lost, and if the 
pump characteristics are such that the normal quantity is maintained against 
the increased head, the motor will be (8*2 X ioo)/3’i6 = 260 per cent over¬ 
load. The characteristics of the pump, however, would be such that there 
would be a reduction in the quantity, so that the maximum b.h.p. would be 
less than that given above, the exact power depending upon quantity head 
characteristics of the pump. 

MIRRLEES HIGH-LEVEL JET CONDENSER 

Fig. 44 shows the latest design of high-level jet condenser as manufactured 
by Messrs. The Mirrlees Watson Company. 

The condenser is of the parallel-flow type. 

The exhaust steam enters at A, and the injection water at B. The injection 
water flows round the injection chamber C, and, passing through the holes 
in the perforated skirt D, is discharged into the body of the exhaust steam 
entering at A, thus ensuring complete intermingling of steam and water. 
The combined mass of injection water and steam passes down through the 
condenser cone E where the greater part of the steam is condensed, and the 
air and jion-condensable gases are compressed by the velocity of the incoming 



HIGH-LEVEL JET CONDENSERS 


103 


steam. The condensed steam and injection water leave by the outlet F, to 
which is bolted the long tail pipe. The air and vapour flow upwards round 
the outside of the condenser cone E, and leave by the outlet G. To this 
outlet G is bolted a separator H which separates the heavy particles of moisture 
carried over with the air. 

The mixture of air and vapour is given a sudden reversal of flow by the 



Fig. 44.—Diagrammatic Sectional Arrangement of Parallel-flow High-level Jet Condenser 


internal pipe J, the heavy moisture passing downwards to the drain L which 
is connected to the tail pipe. The air and its associated vapours pass upwards 
round the internal pipe J and leave by the air suction K, which is connected 
to the air pump. On the condenser bottom cover M there are cast ribs N 
to destroy the free vortex, which would be set up were these ribs not there. 
This enables the condenser to be set at the correct height for a still water- 
level, and ensures that the water does not rise up the side of the condenser 
shell and into the outlet G. The condenser and separator are made of close- 
grained cast iron throughout. 


CHAPTER IV 


Ejector Condensers 


The ejector condenser consists essentially of a water jet discharging 
through a seiies of guide cones, so arranged to guide the steam on to the 
surface of the water jet; the water jet enters a diffuser nozzle, where the 
velocity energy is converted into pressure energy and the water is dis¬ 
charged against the vacuum pull. These condensers require no indepen¬ 
dent air pump, because of the air entraining effect of the water jet itself. 


A 



Fig. 45 shows the latest design of a multi¬ 
jet ejector condenser manufactured by Messrs. 
Korting Brothers. A is the exhaust steam 
inlet, B the condensing water inlet, and C 
the discharge outlet. D is a connection to 
which a vacuum breaker is fitted. 

The condensing jet consists of a number 
of nozzles E, arranged concentrically and 
having their axis inclined at such an angle 
that the water jet assumes the form of an 
inverted cone. Surrounding the water jet 
are the guide cones F, arranged with an in¬ 
creasing area from the bottom to the top. 
In the upper part of the condensing cone 
the water will be colder than it is lower 
down, so that the temperature difference be¬ 
tween the steam and the water at the top 
will be greater than it is lower down, and 
hence the condensation will be greatest at the 
top and gradually diminish to zero at the 
bottom. The guide cones are therefore 


lc 

Fig. 45*—Korting Multi-jet Ejector 
Condenser 


arranged with an increasing area from the 
bottom upwards, the proportions being such 
that the steam velocity through the cones 


is constant from top to bottom. It will be 
realized that the vacuum inside the guide cones F will be higher than it is 
in the exhaust chamber, and with the above arrangement of guide cones 
giving .a uniform or constant steam velocity the vacuum drop will also be 



EJECTOR CONDENSERS 105 

uniform and can thus be reduced to a minimum. The magnitude of this 
vacuum drop varies with the actual vacuum; at 28 in. Hg in the exhaust 
chamber a drop of 0*5 in. Hg is sufficient to impart the necessary velocity 
to the steam. When the steam strikes the jet it is immediately condensed 
and the particles of water, into which it is converted, having the kinetic 
energy of their equivalent weight of steam, cut into the jet and contribute 
to the momentum of the jet, thus assisting in the discharge against the 
atmosphere. The air which enters the condensing cone along with the 
steam has the steam velocity and thus combines easily with the water. The 
air is discharged along with the water. 

In contradistinction to the spray nozzles used in parallel-flow jet con¬ 
densers where the nozzles are designed to break up the water into a fine 
spray, the nozzles in these multi-jet ejector condensers are designed to give 
a solid smooth jet of water, so that the eddy losses are reduced to a minimum, 
and thereby reduce the work of compression in the discharge diffuser to 
a minimum. This smooth solid jet has the capacity of retaining the air 
and other gases which are in solution in the condensing water, so that the 
air which the jet has to entrain is only that due to leakage and that which 
comes over with the steam. Spray nozzles always liberate the air in solution, 
and this liberated air has to be dealt with by air pumps. 

To ensure satisfactory working under all conditions of load, the ejector 
condenser must be supplied with condensing water at a pressure at the 
inlet branch on the condenser of not less than 20 ft. head of water. This 
head is usually derived from a centrifugal circulating pump, which may be 
steam, motor, or belt driven, and which draws the water from a river or pond 
and discharges direct to the condenser. When direct-acting circulating 
pumps are employed they should discharge to an overhead tank placed at 
a height of not less than 20 ft. plus the friction loss in the pipe, above the 
condenser inlet; from the overhead tank the water flows direct to the 
condenser. This arrangement gives a steady flow to the condenser, 
and is preferable to the direct-acting pumps discharging direct to the 
condenser. 

The ratio between the weight of condensing w T ater necessary to give 
a specific vacuum to the weight of steam condensed is practically the same 
as that necessary for surface or jet condensers working under the same 
conditions of vacuum and water temperature. 

A 1000-kw. reciprocating steam-engine and generator, having a steam 
consumption of 20,000 lb. steam per hour, would require for a multi-jet 
Korting ejector condenser 55,000 gall, of condensing water per hour at 
6o° F. to maintain a vacuum of 26 in. Hg. This gives a ratio of water to 
steam of 27*5. The condenser would be 6 ft. long, and allowing a pressure 
at the water inlet branch of 20 ft. head of water, the head against the cir¬ 
culating pump would be 6 + 20 + friction losses in the pipe line + the dif¬ 
ference of level between the pump intake and the condenser outlet flange. 
Assuming an allowance of 6 ft. to be sufficient for these last two items the 
total lift would be 32 ft.; allowing a combined efficiency of 50 per cent for 



io6 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


a motor-driven centrifugal circulating pump the h.p. necessary for supply¬ 
ing the condenser with condensing water is: 

h.p. = ( 55 °>° 00 X 32 )/( 6 o X 33,000 X o-6) 

= 14*82, or 11*05 kw. 

This as a percentage of the full load output of the set is 

(11*05 X ioo)/iooo 
= 1*105 per cent. 

With a turbine of the same size but requiring a vacuum of 28 in. Hg 
a condenser using 88,000 gall, of water per hour would be required. The 
percentage of power required for this set would be 

(1-105 x 88)/55 
== 1*77 per cent. 

With these condensers it is inadvisable to use cooling water at a tem¬ 
perature above 75 0 F., as above this temperature the power required to drive 
the circulating pump becomes disproportionately high because of the large 
quantity of circulating water necessary. When the same water has to be 
used over again this can be accomplished either by spray cooling or by cool¬ 
ing towers, the former method being recommended by the makers of these 
condensers. They also recommend separate condensers for each steam 
unit, although the condensers work quite well when two or more engines 
are exhausting to a central condenser or when two condensers are working 
in parallel. 

Many cases arise in practice where the ejector condenser is eminently 
suitable. Their adoption keeps down capital outlay, and, as they have no 
moving parts (if we neglect the circulating pump), wear and tear is practi¬ 
cally nil even when dirty river or canal water is used. They occupy small 
space, are certain in action, and the cost of working is low. 

To find the velocity of efflux from the water nozzles: 

Let H be the water head at the inlet in feet of water; 

p, the absolute pressure inside the guide cones, in inches of mercury; 
v , the velocity of efflux; 

C v , the coefficient of velocity = say 0*95; and 
H e , the effective head in feet in causing flow. 

Then H E = 1*12 7(30 — p) + H, 

® = c y 2ffH E . .(46) 

= C2g[i-i27(30 — p) H] ft. per second.(47) 

To find the velocity v e at the inlet to the diffuser: 

If M be the mass of steam condensed per second; 

m, the mass of water passing per second; 

v„ the steam velocity in feet per second at the inside edge of guide 
. cones (assumed constant from top to bottom); 





EJECTOR CONDENSERS 107 

v e> the velocity in feet per second of the combined mass of water and 
condensed steam entering the diffuser; and 
6 , the angle between the guide cones and the water jet, then we have: 
the momentum of the jet entering the condenser = mv\ 
the momentum leaving the condenser and entering the diffuser 

= (M + ni)v ey 

and the momentum added to the jet in its passage through the condenser 
is the sum of the momentum of the steam, plus the increased momentum 
of the jet, due to the work done by gravity on the water jet during its 
passage or fall through the condenser, or the added momentum 

= cos# + m(v e — v) 

= cos# + tn(y/-v 2 + 2gH — v) y 

where H is the free height in the condenser through which the water falls. 

The momentum leaving the condenser will equal the sum of the other 
momenta, i.e. 

(M + m)v e = mv + Mv, cos# + v 2 + 2g H — z>), 
or v e = K [mv -f- cos# + m^s/v* + 2^H — ^)J/(M + ^),_(48) 

where K is a coefficient to allow for losses due to 
eddies, &c. 

The following diagram, fig. 46, will illustrate the 
various symbols. 

Since <£ is small its cosine may be taken as 1, 
and therefore v e may be taken to be the velocity of 
the jet entering the diffuser parallel to its axis. 

The velocity v e is converted into pressure energy 
in the diffuser, so that the water is discharged against 
atmospheric pressure. 

RELATION BETWEEN THE VELOCITY 
v € AND THE PRESSURE RISE IN 
THE DIFFUSER 

Let v d be the velocity at the discharge in feet per 
second; 

p y the absolute pressure in inches of mercury at 
the inlet (assumed equal to the pressure 
inside the guide cones); 

P, the absolute pressure in inches of mercury at 
the discharge; and 
l dy the length of the diffuser in feet. 

Then, by Bernouilli’s theorem, we have 

1-127 P + v*l( 2 g) = I*« 7 p + i v d/(2g)} - l d , 
i- e - {*vV( 2 £)} - v/l{2g) = I-I27(P -p)-l d . 



(49) 




io8 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


If the efficiency of the diffuser is 80 per cent, this expression becomes 
{o-8v e 2 l(2g)} - v/l(2g) = I-I27(P - o-8 P) - l d . 
vf = 2g[{o-8v e 2 l(2g)} - I-I27(P - 0.8 Ip) + 4 ] .(50) 

Example. —A multi-jet ejector condenser is to maintain a vacuum of 
28 in. Hg in tne exhaust pipe when supplied with 1500 gall, of condensing 
water at 6o° F. The water pressure at inlet is 9 lb. per square inch gauge. 
Calculate the total area of the nozzles necessary, the velocity v e , the area 
at the diffuser entrance or throat, the velocity of discharge v d , and the area 
at the discharge. The angle 9 is 30°, and the free height H in the con¬ 
denser is 8 ft. 

From equation (46) (p. 106): 

v = C v */:2 £He_ 

= o-95n/6 4 -4[{34 x 9/147} + 1-127(30 - 1-5)] 

= 55*38 ft. per second. 

The total area of the nozzles will be: 

^ _ quantity passing in cubic feet per second X J 44 
velocity in feet per second 
= (i 5 >° 00 X i44)/(62-3 X 60 X 55-38) 

= 10-43 sq. in. 

The steam velocity v s will be that due to the heat drop across the guide 
cones, and, taking the vacuum drop to be 0*5 in. Hg, we get the heat drop 
from 28 in. to 28*5 in. Hg to be 4 B.Th.U (assuming a dryness fraction 
of 0*9). (See the Mollier or H</> diagram.) 

Then v s = .(5 1 ) 

where J is Joule’s mechanical equivalent of heat, and h the heat drop in 
B.Th.U. per pound, i.e. 

v s = s/ 64*4 x 777*8 x 4 
= 447*6 ft. per second. 

To find the total quantity of steam condensed we must first find the 
change in the dryness fraction of the steam passing through the guide cones. 
From the Mollier or H</> diagram this is 0*005 or the dryness fraction inside 
the guide cones is 0*895. 

Then, from equation (37) (p. 78) we get: 

G - [W( 9 L + t x - T 2 )]/[6oo(T 2 - Tj)], 
or 1500 = [W(o*895 x 1040 + 92 — 9i)]/[6oo(9i — 60)], 
i.e. W = 29,943 lb. per hour. 

The mass M of steam flowing per second: 

M = 29,943/3600 

= 8*3 lb. per second. 





EJECTOR CONDENSERS 


109 


The mass m of water passing per second: 

m — 15,000/60 

= 250 lb. per second. 

Then from equation (48) 

v e = K[25ox 55-38+8-3 X 447-6 xo-866+25o(V55-38 2 +64-4X8—55-38)] 
^(8-3+250) 

= 7074K ft. per second. 

Allowing a value for K = 075, 

then v e = 075 X 70*34 

= 52*75 ft. per second. 

From equation (50) and assuming l d to be 3 ft., 

v d 2 = 64-411 (o-8 x 52-75 2 )/64‘4} - 1-127(30 - o-8 x 1-5) + 3] 

= 328-44 

v d = 18-12 ft. per second. 

The total quantity of water flowing through the diffuser 

= M + m 
~ 8-3 + 250 
= 258-3 lb. per second; 

and the area A de at the diffuser entrance or throat will be 

^ _ volume passing in cubic feet per second X 144 

de velocity in feet per second 

= (258-3 X i 44 )/( 62-3 X 52-75) 

= ii*3 sq. in. 

The diameter of the diffuser throat is therefore 3*8 in. 

The area at the discharge of the diffuser will be 

A dd = (xx -3 X 52-75)/i8-i2 
= 32-89 sq. in. 

The diameter at the discharge end is therefore 6-46 in. 

The diameter or area of the exhaust inlet may be fixed by the same rules 
as were given on p. 57. 



IIO 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


KORTING VACUUM BREAKER 

The design of vacuum breaker fitted by Messrs. Korting to their ejector 
condensers is of the automatic type, that is, should, from any cause what¬ 
ever, the water-level rise in the condenser to a predetermined and dangerous 
height the vacuum is automatically broken. The breaker is shown in 
fig. 47, and consists of a small cast-iron casing A which is bolted to the 
branch D shown in fig. 45 (p. 104). To this casing is fixed a lever and float 

S pivoted at B. A small relay 
valve C fitted to the casing 
A is operated by the rise 
and fall of the float S. The 
valve opens when the float 
rises, and closes when the 
float falls. The casing sur¬ 
rounding the valve C is 
carried up beyond the valve 
so as to form a water seal 
over the valve. The air 
admission valve V, to which 
the piston P is rigidly at¬ 
tached, is relay operated by 
the piston P through the 
medium of the relay valve C 
and the small communicat¬ 
ing pipe D. The branch 
E is connected to the con¬ 
denser. 

Under normal working conditions the float is in the lower position, the 
valves C and V are shut, and the chambers above and below the piston and 
the pipe D are all under the condenser vacuum, communication being 
effected by means of the small ducts through the stems of the valves C and 
V. The piston P therefore is in equilibrium, having the condenser vacuum 
above and below it. The valves V and C, having atmospheric pressure 
above them and the condenser vacuum below them, are therefore held 
shut. The closing force on the valve Y is augmented by the pressure of 
the spring F. The action of the breaker is as follows. 

When the float rises the valve C is opened and the air entering through 
this valve partially destroys the vacuum in the pipe D and under the piston 
P; the equilibrium of the piston is thus destroyed. There being a resultant 
upward thrust on the valve V and piston P the valve therefore opens and 
air flows in, and through the outlet branch E to the condenser, thus de¬ 
stroying the vacuum. When normal conditions are regained and the 
condenser is cleared of water the float falls, thus closing the valve C; the 
vacuum then rises in the pipe D, putting the piston in equilibrium, and the 
spring F closes the valve. The adoption of this automatic vacuum breaker 



Fig. 47.—Vacuum Breaker fitted to the Korting 
Ejector Condensers 




EJECTOR CONDENSERS 


iii 


does away with the necessity for a non-return valve in the exhaust pipe 
between the condenser and the engine or turbine, and avoids the in¬ 
evitable drop in vacuum across such a valve due to its weight and friction. 

These multi-jet ejector condensers must be erected vertically, and when 
starting up it is essential to have the condensing water circulating and the 
full vacuum showing in the condenser before admitting steam. When 
shutting down, the engine or turbine should be shut down first, and the 
pump supplying the condensing or injection water last. 



Fig. 48 gives the results of a number of tests on a No. 40 Korting ejector 
condenser plotted as a series of curves. These curves were kindly supplied 
to the author by Messrs. Korting Brothers. During the tests the quantity 
of cooling water was maintained constant at 220,000 gall, per hour, and the 
steam quantity varied for each temperature of cooling water. A study of 
these curves is very instructive. At an inlet water temperature of 50° F. 
and a steam duty of 55,000 lb. per hour, the vacuum recorded was 28*45 in. 
Hg, while at the same inlet water temperature the vacuum at a steam duty 
of 44,000 lb. was 28*74 in. Hg. At the former steam duty the ratio of 
cooling water to steam was 40, while at the latter steam duty the ratio was 
50, that is, for an increase in vacuum of 28*74 — 28*45 = 0*29 in. Hg, 







I 12 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


the water to steam ratio was increased io or 25 per cent. Again for a de¬ 
creased steam duty from 44,000 to 27,000 lb. per hour the vacuum increase 
was 29-03 — 28-74 = °' 2 9 i n - Hg, the same as before, and the water to 
steam ratio was increased to 80, an increase of 30 or 60 per cent; or in other 
words for an increase in vacuum of 0-29 in. Hg at about 28f in. Hg. the 
quantity of cooling water must be increased by 25 per cent, the steam quantity 
remaining the same; while for an increase in vacuum of 0-29 in. Hg at about 
28-9 in. Hg the quantity of cooling water must be increased 60 per cent, 
The same remarks apply to lower water temperatures, and show the large 
increase in the quantity of water necessary when vacua are maintained close 
to the vacua corresponding to the cooling water temperatures. 



CHAPTER V 


Evaporative Condensers 

As its name implies, the evaporative condenser depends for its action 
on the rapid evaporation of a film of cold water flowing over the surface 
of a tube in the presence of air. The normal arrangement is to pass the 
steam through the inside of the tubes and a thin film of cooling water over 
the outside, at the same time allowing atmospheric air to circulate freely 
over the film of cooling water, either naturally or by means of fans. 

Let W be the quantity of steam to be condensed in pounds per hour; 

<7, the dryness fraction of the steam; 

G, the quantity of cooling water in pounds per hour; 

L, the latent heat in the steam per pound; 

/ 2 , the temperature of the condensate; 

T v the inlet temperature of the cooling water; 

T 2 , the outlet temperature of the cooling water; 

T, the temperature of the atmosphere; 

G eJ the quantity of cooling water evaporated in pounds per hour; 

/j, the steam temperature; and 

L w , the average latent heat of vaporization of cooling water between 
Tj_ and T 2 . 

The heat to be extracted from the steam per hour: 

H s = W( ? L + t l - t 2 ). 


Of the quantity of cooling water G entering the condenser the quantity 
G e is evaporated and passes off with the air, and the quantity (G — G g ) is 
heated from temperature T x to temperature T 2 and returned to the collect¬ 
ing tank to be recirculated. The quantity G e is replaced by the introduc¬ 
tion into the collecting tank of cold “ make up ” water, which mixing with 
the quantity (G — GJ maintains the inlet temperature at T v 

The heat absorbed by the cooling water by evaporation will be 

G e K- 

The average latent heat may be taken since the graph of latent beat 
and temperature is sensibly a straight line. 

If Q a be the quantity of air circulating in pounds per hour, and t u and 

(D450) 113 8 



STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


114 

the inlet and outlet temperatures of the air, the heat absorbed by the 
air i s ^ u , v 

= Q a{ha — h a)r, 

where r is the specific heat of the air. 

The heat absorbed by the cooling water from temperature T 1 to T 2 is 

(G — G e ) (T 2 — Tj). 

Then 

W(qL + h ~ h) = (G - G.) (T 2 - Tj) + Q a (t 2a - t la )r + G e L K . ... (52) 

Since the quantity (G — G c ) is returned to the collecting tank at tem¬ 
perature T 2 and is cooled to temperature T 1 by the incoming quantity of 
“ make up ” water, G e being heated from its inlet temperature T Ge to tem¬ 
perature T 1? we get the following relation of a simple heat exchange: 

(G - G e ) (T 2 - TJ = G e (T x - T Ge ).(53) 

It should be noted that the temperature t 2a is the average temperature 
from top to bottom of the condenser. 

The quantity of air necessary to evaporate G e lb. of water depends upon 
the humidity of the entering and leaving air. The humidity of the entering 
air varies from day to day during the operation of any plant, and the value 
allowed for in the design is solely based on experience with these condensers. 
Normal atmospheric air, however, has a relative humidity of f, and this 
figure may be taken. The aim of the design of the cooling elements 
is to have the leaving air as completely saturated with vapour as possible, 
that is, to have the relative humidity of the leaving air unity. 

Let R x be the relative humidity of the entering air; 

R 2 , the relative humidity of the leaving air; 

w ly the saturation weight of vapour associated with i lb. of air at 
temperature t la \ and 

w 2y the saturation weight of vapour associated with i lb. of air at 
temperature t 2a . 

Then the weight of associated vapour entering the condenser per pound 
of dry air is w 1 R ly and the weight of associated vapour leaving the con¬ 
denser is ^2^2* 

The weight of vapour taken up per pound of air will therefore be 

^ 2 R 2 — w x R ly 

and the total weight of air necessary to absorb G* lb. of vapour will be 

= G e /(w 2 R 2 - .(54) 

Taking normal saturation of the entering air, R a will be f, and complete 
saturation of the leaving air R 2 = 1, we get: 

Qa = GJO’-o - f tOj) 


( 55 ) 






EVAPORATIVE CONDENSERS 


"5 


To find w x and w 2 we know from Dalton’s laws of partial pressures 
(p. 12) that the air and vapour both occupy the same volume and that each 
exerts its own pressure. Now 1 lb. of dry air at atmospheric pressure (14*7 lb. 
per square inch) and a temperature of 32 0 F. occupies 12*39 c - ft*> so that 

(147 x 12-39)/(459'6 + 32) = PV/T.(56) 

Therefore, for any given pressure P and temperature T we can find the 
volume per pound. This volume will be occupied by the vapour at its tem¬ 
perature and partial pressure; and, since the specific volume can be found 
from the steam tables, the weight of vapour in the volume V can be found 
by dividing V by the specific volume. A concrete example will make this 
clear. 

Example .—An evaporative condenser is to condense 10,000 lb. per hour 
of exhaust steam and maintain a vacuum of 25 in. Hg. The inlet and outlet 
temperatures of the circulating water are 90° F. and no° F. respectively, and 
the temperature of the “ make up ” water is 50° F. The air temperature is 
50° F., and the air has normal saturation. Calculate the quantity of cooling 
water entering the condenser and the weight of air circulating among the 
tubes. Assume the dryness fraction of the exhaust steam as 0-85, and the 
condensate temperature as 120° F., and the temperature of the leaving air 
and vapour as 90° F. 

From equation (52) (p. 114) we have 

W(^L + t x — t 2 ) = + (G — G e ) (T 2 — Tj) + Q a (t 2a — t la )r. 

q is 0*85; 

L, 1016*5 B.Th.U.; 

h, 134° F.; 
t 2 , 120° F.* 

G e is unknown; 

L w , (1041*2+ io3o)/2 = 1035*6 B.Th.U.; 

W, 10,000 lb. per hour; 

G is unknown; 

T lf 9 o° F.; 

T 2 , iio° F.; 
r, 0*2375; 

T Gg , 5 o° F.; 

Q a is unknown; 
ha , 9°° F.; and 
hay 5 °° F. 

From equation (53) (p. 114) we have: 

(G - G e ) (T 2 - T x ) = G/T* - T G- ), 

(G — G e ) (no - 90) = G/90 - 50), 
or 20 G — 2oG* = 4oG c , 

G e — 20G/60, 




116 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


From equation (55) we have: 

Qa = G e /(w 2 - f w x ). 

To find and zv 2 we have the partial air pressure at the inlet temperature 
of 50° F. as: 

p la = 147 — | (the vapour pressure at 50° F.) 

= x 47 ~ (2 X o-i78)/3 
= 14*58 lb. per square inch. 

Then from equation (56), 

(147 x 12-39)/ (459-6 + 32) = (i4-58V„)/(459-6 4 - 5 °). 

= (14-7 X 12-39 X 5°9-6)/(i4-58 x 491-6) 

= 12*93 c - ft- 

The specific volume of vapour at 50° F. from the steam tables is 
1702 c. ft. per pound. 

.*. w 1 = 12*93/1702 

= 0*0076 lb. per pound of air. 

Again, the partial air pressure at the outlet temperature of 90° F. is 

= 14*7 — vapour pressure at 90° F. 

= 147 - 0*7 
= 14 lb. per square inch. 

Then from equation (56), 

(14-7 x i2-39)/(459-6 + 32) = i4V 2a /(459-6 4 - 9 °). 

V 2a = (14-7 X 12-39 X 549-6)/(i4 X 491-6) 

= 14*54 c. ft. per pound. 

The specific volume of vapour at 90° F. is 469*3 c. ft. 

^2 = i 4 ‘ 54 / 4 6 9-3 

= 0*0293 lb. per pound of air. 

Then by substituting these values in equation (55) we get: 

Qa = GJ(W 2 - f Wj) 

= £G/(o-0293 — § X 0-0076 
= G/o-0727, 

and, by substituting this value of Q a and the value of G e = G/3 in 
equation (52), we get 

W( ? L 4 - h ~ h) 

= §GL«,+ (G -$G)(T 2 —Ti)+ [{G(< te —< la )o-2375}/o-o727] f 
i.e. 10,000(0-85 X 1016-5 4 - 134 — 120) 

= |Gio 35-6 + |G(no - 90) 4 - [^(90 — 50)0-2375}/o-0727], 
i.e. 8,780,000 = 345-2G 4 - i 3 - 33 G 4 - i 3 °' 6 7 G, 

G = 17,950 lb. per hour. 



EVAPORATIVE CONDENSERS 

The weight of the air circulating will be 

Q a = G/o-0727 
= 17,950/0-0727 
= 246,900 lb. per hour. 

The volume occupied by this weight of air entering 

= 246,900 X 12-93 
— 3, J 93,°°° c. ft. per hour. 


LEDWARD & BECKETT’S EVAPORATIVE CONDENSER 

The evaporative condenser manufactured by Messrs. Ledward & Beckett 
of London is shown in fig. 49. The exhaust steam from the engines passes 
first through a grease separator and from there it passes to the exhaust main; 
this exhaust main runs, as shown, the whole length of the condenser, and 
from the underside head pipes lead the exhaust steam to the condensing 
elements. These condensing elements consist of corrugated and fluted 
cast-iron tubes bolted together and arranged in coils by means of suitable 
bends at the ends; the arrangement being such that the steam enters at the 
top of the element and flows backwards and forwards, the steam meantime 
condensing, till when the bottom flow or pass is leached the steam is all 
condensed. The bottom flows of the condensing elements are connected 
together by a condensate main which is connected to the air pump suction; 
the air pump discharges as usual to the hotwell. The circulating pump 
draws the circulating water from a large collecting tank, which is arranged 
underneath the condensing elements so that the water falling from these 
elements is caught in the tank. The circulating pump discharges to the top 
of the condenser distributing pipes and spreaders arranged over the corru¬ 
gated and fluted cast-iron condensing elements; these distributing pipes and 
spreaders cause the water to spread itself evenly over the condensing elements 
in a thin film. The water flows by gravity from the top to the bottom tube 
and ultimately falls into the collecting tank arranged underneath. Large 
air spaces are provided between the elements and between the tubes com¬ 
prising the elements, so that the air can circulate freely around the tubes, 
thereby creating conditions favourable for rapid evaporation. The arrange¬ 
ment and design of the corrugated tubes is the result of many years’ ex¬ 
perience, and the makers claim that the water is spread over the whole surface 
of the tubes in a perfectly even and thin film. It will be readily understood 
that this is a very important point, since if portions of the tube surface were 
dry these portions would be ineffective for the condensation of steam, and 
the maximum efficiency would not be obtained. The quantity of water 
G e lost by evaporation does not, with these condensers, exceed two-thirds 
the quantity of steam at the maximum load, while at lighter loads the quantity 
is considerably less. At a load of about 30 per cent of full load the water 
circulation can be stopped and the steam condensed by air cooling alone. 




Fig. 49-—Ledward & Beckett Patent Evaporative Condenser 








































EVAPORATIVE CONDENSERS 


119 

This is a valuable feature in works which carry a light load for considerable 
portions of the day or night, as the circulating pump can be shut down and a 
considerably economy effected thereby. 

Since the steam and circulating water both enter at the top and gravitate 
towards the bottom, the condenser is of the parallel-flow type. At full loads 
this arrangement gives a condensate temperature approaching the vacuum 
temperature, but at light loads there may be a considerable depression of 
condensate temperature below the vacuum temperature. This depression 
is a direct loss, and to minimize this Messrs. Ledward & Beckett have recently 
arranged a new system of stage drainage whereby the condensate is trapped 
off from the coils by means of special baffle deflectors. This system is shown 
in fig. 50 which shows a typical plant of this description. 

It will be noticed that from every alternate coil a drain pipe is led to a 
vertical drain collector fitted with an internal pipe. The communication 
between the internal pipe and the drain collector is through a water seal, so 
that the condensate drained off at each stage must pass through its own trap 
before reaching the internal pipe. Short circuiting of the steam is thereby 
prevented, and, since the condenser is hotter at the top than it is at the 
bottom, the condensate tapped off at the higher stages will be hotter than 
that tapped off lower down; the net result of the arrangement being an 
increased hotwell temperature for the same vacuum, which makes for 
economy. 

Vacua of 24 in. Hg and upwards can be obtained with these condensers, 
and it is interesting to note that the running costs vary only very slightly for 
high or low vacuum; the normal vacuum, however, recommended is 25 in. 
Hg at full load, this being the figure found by the makers to be the best 
for true fuel economy. 

A notable feature of this type of condenser is the low power consumption 
of the circulating pump. The normal quantity of water pumped is 1 gall, 
per pound of steam, or a ratio of water to steam of 10 to 1; the head pumped 
against is normally about 12 ft. 6 in., this being the difference in level between 
the water in the tank and the top of the condenser. The power consumption 
therefore works out at about 0*25 per cent of the power equivalent of the 
steam being condensed. The total power consumption for working the 
condenser varies between 2 and slightly under 1 per cent, according to the 
size of the plant; the former figure is for small plants and the latter figure 
for large plants. 

Owing to its great volumetric capacity the evaporative condenser is unique 
in its being able to take heavy overloads for short periods without the vacuum 
being adversely affected, the condenser is thus eminently suited to engines 
which have heavy peak loads such as rolling mill engines, &c. 

The following test data, kindly supplied to the author by Messrs. Ledward 
& Beckett from one of their evaporative condensers, shows a normal perform¬ 
ance of their evaporative condensers. 



120 



Fig. 50 .—Ledward & Beckett’s Patent Evaporative Condenser; with Stage Drainage System 





































































EVAPORATIVE CONDENSERS 


121 


Evaporative Condenser. (L. & B.) 

Data received from the Broughton and Plas Power Coal Company, Ltd., 
near Wrexham. 


Capacity of condenser 
Vacuum 
Air pump 
Circulating pump 
Engines in use 


Load 

Quantity of steam condensed 
Temperature of circulating water .. 
Condensate 

Atmospheric temperature 

Barometer 

Vacuum 

Vacuum 

Average power consumed by circula¬ 
ting pump 

Steam used by pump 

Amount of “ make-up ” introduced 
into the tank under condenser .. 


15,000 lb. per hour. 

25 in. Hg. 

Steam driven. 

Motor driven. 

One 600-kw. Beiliss & Morcom, triple 
compound. 

One 200-kw. Scott & Mountain, verti¬ 
cal high-speed compound. 

One 200-kw. Roley-Horiz, compound. 
Fluctuating between 500 and 800 amp. 
at 550 volts. 

Average 12,000 lb. per hour. 

Average 90° F. 

Average no° F. 

Average so° F. 

Average 28*5 in. Hg. 

Average 25*5 to 26-5 in. Hg. 

Correct to barometer 27 to 28 in. Hg. 

3'5 b.h.p. 

150 lb. per hour and heat recovered in 
condensate. 

800 gall, per hour. 


Making the following analysis of the figures we find that the water lost by 
evaporation is 

= (8000 X IOO)/i2,OOO 
= 66*6 per cent of the steam condensed. 

The power consumption of the circulating pump is 3*5 b.h.p. 

The power consumption of the air pump taking 30 lb. of steam per b.h.p., 
and neglecting any heat recovery is 150/30 = 5 b.h.p. 

Since no fans are used for air circulation by Messrs. Ledward & 
Beckett the total power consumption is 8-5 b.h.p., and taking an average 
steam consumption of 20 lb. per brake horse-power for the engines ex¬ 
hausting to the condenser, the percentage of power consumption to the 
power condensed is 

(8*5 X 20 X 100)/i2,000 
=- 1-415 per cent. 








122 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


EXAMPLES ON EVAPORATIVE CONDENSERS 

Example i .—On a certain day the temperature of the air supply to an 
evaporative condenser was 55 0 F. The dew-point as measured by the wet 
and dry bulb hygrometer was 40° F. Find the weight of vapour associated 
with each pound of air which was entering the condenser. 

Answer. —0*00523 lb. per pound of air. 

Example 2.—The temperature of the air and vapour leaving an evapora¬ 
tive condenser was measured to be 115 0 F. and the condition of the air 
entering was as given in example 1. Find the total quantity of air which 
must be in circulation to evaporate 4000 lb. of water per hour. Assume 
the air leaving the condenser to be saturated with water vapour. 

Answer. —62,360 lb. per hour. 

Example 3 .—An evaporative condenser is to maintain a vacuum of 
25 in. Hg, the supply of “ make up ” water is at a temperature of 65° F. 
The temperature of the condensate is 5 0 F. below the vacuum temperature, 
and the outlet temperature of the circulating water is 115 0 F. The quantity 
of exhaust steam to be dealt with is 9000 lb. per hour, and the steam has 
a dryness fraction of 0*9. The entering air temperature is 50° F., and the 
dew-point 40° F. 

Calculate the minimum quantity of “ make up ” water introduced into 
the collecting tank to maintain the circulating water inlet temperature at 
ioo° F.. and state the quantity of circulating water entering the condenser. 

Answer .—6419 lb. per hour. The quantity of water entering is 21,397 lb. 
per hour. 



CHAPTER VI 


Air Ejectors and Air Pumps 

STEAM-JET OPERATED AIR EJECTORS 

Steam-jet operated air ejectors have come to be almost universally used 
for the production of the high vacuum demanded in the modern land con¬ 
densing plant, owing to their simplicity, the small space occupied, and the 
absence of moving parts with the consequent reliability. 

There are many makes now on the market, and they all follow the same 
general principles. The air is compressed in two stages, the first stage 
compressing the air from the condenser vacuum to 25 or 26 in. Hg vacuum, 
and the second stage compressing from this vacuum to atmospheric pres¬ 
sure. Both stages follow the same general principles, i.e. the potential 
energy of the operating steam is transformed in a convergent-divergent 
steam nozzle into velocity energy, so that the steam issues from this nozzle 
with the maximum velocity. This rapidly moving jet of steam entrains 
the air and non-condensible gases by friction, and the combined mass of 
entrained air and steam is discharged into a diffuser nozzle, where a portion 
of the kinetic energy is retransformed into pressure energy, so that the air 
is discharged against a pressure higher than the ejector suction pressure. 

Let fig. 51 represent one stage of an air ejector. 

Let v s be the exit velocity of the steam jet in feet per second; 
v ty the velocity at the diffuser throat in feet per second; 
v d , the velocity at the diffuser outlet in feet per second; 
v ay the velocity of the air and vapour when it meets the issuing jet 
of steam in feet per second; 

V ty the absolute pressure in pounds per square inch at the diffuser throat; 
Prf, the absolute pressure in pounds per square inch at the diffuser outlet; 
p ay the partial air pressure at entrance in pounds per square inch; 
m y the mass of dry air in pounds per second; 
m vy the mass of vapour associated with m lb. of air; 

M, the mass of steam flowing in pounds per second; 

J, Joule’s mechanical equivalent of heat; 

Ej, the efficiency of the diffuser nozzle; 

V*, the volume per pound of mixture at the diffuser throat in cubic 
feet; and 

V* the volume per pound of mixture at the diffuser discharge in 
cubic feet. 


123 



124 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


From the laws of impact or collision we know that the sum of the 
momenta before impact is equal to the sum of the momenta after impact, 
therefore: 

+ v a (m + m v ) = (M + m + m v )v ty 
or v, = {Mw, + v a (m + m v )}/(M + m + m v ) .(57) 

From this equation we can find the velocity v t at the diffuser throat 
for given masses and velocities of steam, air, and vapour. In the above the 

assumption is made that there is no rise in 
pressure before the diffuser throat is reached. 
This is not strictly true how r ever. 

The combined mass of air, vapour and 
steam flowing past the throat section with a 


H 


a d v d v d 

Fig. 51.—One Stage of an Air Ejector 

velocity v t is gradually reduced in velocity and increased in pressure in 
the diverging part of the diffuser. 

Assuming that the compression is a reversed expansion, the steam con¬ 
ditions may be shown on the total heat entropy chart, fig. 52. 

Point A gives the steam supply conditions to the ejector, expansion 
takes place from A to B in the steam nozzle, point B giving the condition 
at the steam nozzle exit. The drop in total heat from A to B equals the 
gain in velocity energy of the steam or, neglecting the small initial velocity 
of the steam, 

J(H a - H b ) = v*l(2g) .(58) 

Between the points B and E entrainment of the air and vapour takes 
place. The dryness of the steam will therefore be slightly increased and 
there will be an increase in entropy along a constant pressure line. The 
velocity v s at B will drop to v. at E. The mass of steam flowing will 
now be increased by the mass of entrained vapour. Taking i lb. of 








AIR EJECTORS AND AIR PUMPS 


125 


this combined mass of steam and entrained vapour the pressure rise in 
the diffuser nozzle will be from E to C, the velocity v t at E having mean¬ 
while fallen to v d at C. The pressure at C will be less than the discharge 
pressure by the amount of the air pressure. If the compression had been 
frictionless and adiabatic the compression line would have been ED, and 
the discharge velocity would have been increased. Owing to friction, 
however, entropy is added to the st:am, and the compression line takes 
the form EC, the action being similar to the expansion in a steam nozzle 
where the reheat increases the entropy and causes the truly adiabatic to 
move from AB' to AB. 

The combined mass of air, vapour, and steam is compressed along the 
line EC and if n be the compression exponent of the mixture, and n s the 
compression exponent of the pure steam, and n a the compression ex¬ 
ponent of the pure air, the following relation holds: 

p/(n - 1) = p a /(n a - 1 ) + p s /(n s - 1),.(59) 

where p is the total absolute pressure at any point in the compression, 
p a is the air pressure at the same point, and 
p s is the steam pressure at the same point. 

The value of n a for pure dry air is 14, and the value of n s , which would 
cause the discharge to be just dry, w T ould be Zeuner’s value for dry steam, 
namely, 1*135. Owing, however, to the fact that steam does not readily 
pick up moisture during compression, the exponent n s is nearer 1*3 than 
1*135 anc ^ may be taken at the former value. The influence of this factor, 
and the frittering down into heat of the friction losses in the diffuser, are 
the main causes for the discharge from air ejectors of the reversed nozzle 
type being slightly superheated, even when the ejector is supplied with 
wet steam. 

If a thermometer be placed in the discharge from an air ejector dis¬ 
charging to atmosphere, the temperature indicated may bu lower than 
212 0 F. This does not necessarily indicate that the discharge is wet. The 
total pressure at discharge is the sum of the air pressure and the steam 
pressure; and, if the air quantity passing is large, the air pressure will be 
large and the steam pressure low, so that the saturation temperature of the 
steam will be less than 212° F. In general it will be found that the larger 
the air quantity passing, the lower will be the discharge temperature. This 
temperature may vary from 220 0 F. to 205° F. in the same ejector, the 
variation being obtained by varying the air quantity passing. 

The available energy supplied at the throat of the diffuser nozzle is 
per pound of mixture. The work done per pound in compressing 
and discharging the mixture is 

{n/(n - i)}(P d V d - P<V t )i44,.(60) 

and the residual energy at the diffuser discharge is 

V 2 dl(2g)- 





126 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


The available energy will equal the work done plus the residual energy, 

i.e. v\/(2g) = {»/(« - i)}(P„V, - P,V,)i44 + .(61) 

Allowing for the efficiency of the diffuser this expression becomes 

E M2g) = {»/(» - i)}(P d V d - P ( V,)I44 + vJI(2g) .(62) 

The compression will follow the law 

PV" — constant. 

Again, let a a be the annular area in square inches between the exit end of 
the steam nozzle and the diffuser cone; 
a t , the area in square inches of the diffuser throat; 
a d , the area in square inches of the diffuser outlet; and 
V a , the volume in cubic feet per pound of air at the partial air 
pressure p a at the area a a \ 

then the entrance area a a is 

a a = (i 44 v « w )K.( 6 3 ) 

At the throat section the necessary area a t must be such as to allow the 
combined mass of steam, air, and vapour to pass at the velocity v t . If Y t 
be the volume per pound of the mixture and q the dryness fraction of the 
steam issuing from the steam nozzle, then 

V f = (M X specific volume X q + mV a )/(M + m + ?n t ) .. .(64) 


The throat area a t will be 

a t = {i44 v *(M + m + m v )}/v t .(65) 

Similarly at the diffuser discharge the necessary area a d will be 

a d = {!44 V rf( M + m -f m v )} jv d , .(66) 


where Y d is the volume in cubic feet per pound of mixture at the discharge 
pressure P d . 

Example .—A single-stage air ejector is to withdraw 40 lb. of dry air per 
hour saturated with water vapour at a temperature of 8o° F. from a vessel 
at a vacuum of 26 in. Hg. The exit velocity from the steam nozzle is 
3495 ft. per second, and the dryness fraction of the steam is 0*846. The 
mass of steam flowing is 392 lb. per hour; calculate the necessary areas: 
a u a a , and a d . Take the velocity v a — 100 ft. per second. 

First find the mass of vapour m v which is associated with m lb. of air at 
26 in. Hg vacuum and 8o° F. 

The partial air pressure p a will be 

Pa = 28-97 - 26 
= 2-97 in. Hg, 
or = (2-97 X i4*7)/30 

= 1-455 lb. per square inch. 








AIR EJECTORS AND AIR PUMPS 


127 


The volume per pound of air at this partial pressure will be 

V„ = [(12-39 X 30) (459-6 + 8o)]/[2-97( 4 59-6 + 32)] 
= 137*4 c - P er pound. 


The specific volume of the vapour at 8o° F. is from the steam tables 
636*8 c. ft. per pound. 

The mass of vapour associated with i lb. of air will then be 


and m v will be 


137*4/636*8 = 0*2157 lb. per pound, 

m v = (0*2157 X 40)/3600 
= 0*00239 lb. per second. 


The total mass of air and vapour entering the ejector suction will be, 
say m a , 


m a — m + m v 

= (40/3600) + 0*00239 
= 0*0135 lb. per second. 


From equation (63) the area a a will be 

a a = (i44 V a ™)/v a 

= (i 44 X 137-4 X 4o)/(ioo X 3600) 
= 2*2 sq. in. 


Again, from equation (57) the throat velocity v t is 

v t = { Mv s + v a (m + M + m + m v ) 

= [{(392 X 3495 )/ 3 6o °} + 100 X o*oi35]/[(392/36oo) + 0*0135] 

= 3121 ft. per second. 

From the equation (64) Y t will be 

V< = (M X specific volume X? + ?riV a )l(M + m + m v ) 

= (0*1089 x 175x0*846+0*01111 x i37*4)/(o* i o89+o*oiiii+o*oo 239) 
= 144 c. ft. 

Then substituting these values in equation (65) we get 

a t = 144VXM + m + m v )lv t 
= (144 X 144 X 0*I224)/3I2I 
— 0*8164 sq. in. 

The diameter having this area is i^r in. 

From equation (59) the compression exponent n may be found: 

Pl(n — i) = Pal fa a — J ) — Psl( n s - *)> 



128 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


At the throat section: 

p a = i - 455 lb. per square inch, 

p t — 4 in. Hg or 1-96 lb. per square inch, and 

p s = 1-96 — 1-455 = 0-505 lb. per square inch. 


Then substituting we get 

1-96/(71 - 1) = 1*455/(1-4 - 1) + 0-505/(1-3 - 1), 

.'. n = 1-368. 

Again we have: 

PV" = C, 

or P/V 7 308 = P d V/ 3 « 8 , 

\ d = V t (P { /Prf) 11368 
= 144(1-96/I4-7) 11368 
= 144 x 0-2294 
= 33 eft. 

From equation (62): 

E d v*l(2g) = {77/(77 - i)}(? d V d - P,V,)i 4 4 + v/l(2g). 


Taking the efficiency of the diffuser at 72 per cent we get 
0-72 X (3121)2/(2 g) 

= (1-368/(1-368 — 1){(14*7 X 33 — 1-96 X 144)144 + v d z l(2g), 
108,900 = 108,106 + v//{2g), 
or v d = ^51,133 

— 226*1 feet per second. 


It may be instructive to work out the diffuser efficiency for this case at 
which the ejector would break down. This point is reached when the 
discharge velocity V d becomes zero, or when 

W!(2g) = { 77/(77 - I)}(P,V<7 - P ( V,)I44- 

By substitution we find ~E d to be 

E d = 108,106/151,252 
= 0-7147, 

or 7i'47 per cent. 

The discharge area a d would be, from equation (66), 

a d = { I44V d /®d}(M + 777 + 777 „) 

= {(144 X 33)/ 226 * 1 }o*X224 
= 2-57 sq. in. 

The diameter which has this area is if?r in. 



AIR EJECTORS AND AIR PUMPS 


129 


Normally ejectors are designed to discharge against a small back pres¬ 
sure to overcome the friction loss in the discharge pipe, and to reduce this 
loss to a minimum the velocity in the discharge pipe is kept low. If the 
above ejector therefore had to discharge through a discharge pipe the exit 
diameter of 1 14 in., as found above, would be increased to keep the discharge 
velocity under 100 ft. per second. 


STEAM NOZZLES 


The steam nozzles adopted in steam-jet operated air ejectors are of the 
convergent-divergent type and are of normal design. The expansion 
ratio is, however, very large, since they discharge directly into vacua. 

The author does not propose to deal largely with the theorv of steam 
nozzles, since the theory is dealt with very fully in many textbooks on 
steam turbines. (See Steam Turbines by Goudie.) He proposes rather 
to give the generally accepted formulae for exit velocity, &c., so far as they 
are applicable to steam-jet air ejectors. 

Let P be the initial steam pressure in pounds per square inch absolute; 

V, the initial volume of the steam in cubic feet per pound; 

p , the pressure at exit in pounds per square inch absolute; 

v sy the exit steam velocity in feet per second; 

v ti the throat velocity in feet per second; 

P n the throat pressure in pounds per square inch absolute; 

zc\ the weight discharged in pounds per second; 

E, the efficiency of the nozzle; 

a , the area of the throat in square inches; 

A, the area of the throat exit in square inches; 

V 0 , the actual volume of steam at exit in cubic feet per pound; 

V„ the volume of dry steam at exit in cubic feet per pound; 

q , the quality of the steam at exit; 

/z, the heat drop from P to p. 


For initially dry saturated steam and for superheated steam, 
a = (a>/o-3i55)x/V/P. 

P«/P = °' 5457 > 


It can be shown that 
and that 


v t = 72*24\/PV. 


(67) 

( 68 ) 


It should be noted that the numerical value of V, will depend on the 
degree of superheat; the value may be found directly from the steam tables. 
The exit velocity of the steam is calculated from 

v s = 223 *7 VE h .(69) 

The heat drop h. is best read directly from the total heat entropy chart, 

( D 450) 9 






130 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


and the value of E may be deduced from the following equation, which 

is due to H. M. Martin, who obtained it by collation of the results of various 

experimenters: . 

r 100E = 1027 “ O'ooh .(70) 


The exit volume of the steam is given by 

Vo = .(71) 

The area of the nozzle exit is found from 

A = i^wV 0 jv s .(72) 


Example .—The second stage steam nozzle of an air ejector is to pass 
392 ib. per hour. The steam supply pressure is 150 lb. per square inch 
gauge, and the steam is dry saturated. The intermediate vacuum of the 
ejector is 26 in. Hg. Calculate the necessary throat diameter and the neces¬ 
sary exit diameter of the steam nozzle, and the exit velocity v s . State what 
the dryness fraction of the steam issuing from the steam nozzle will be. 

From equation (67): 

a = (a>/o-3i55)/v/V/P _ 

= {392/(3600 x o-3i55)}/x/2-758/164-7 
= 0*04446 sq. in. 

The equivalent diameter is 15/64 in. (nearly). 

From equation (70): 

100E = 102*7 — o*o6/z, 

and from the total heat entropy chart h from P to p , i.e. from 165 lb. per 
square inch absolute to 26 in. Hg vacuum is 289 B.Th.U. 

100E = 102*7 ~ 0*06 X 289 
= 102*7 - 17 * 34 , 

i.e. E = 85*36 per cent. 

Then 85*36 per cent of 289 = 246*8 B.Th.U., and scaling this on the 
total heat entropy chart gives q — 0*82. 

From equation (69): 

v s = 223 *7%/ Eh 

= 223-7^0-8534 X 289 
= 3512 ft. per second. 

From equation (71) the actual volume at exit V 0 is 

V 0 = ?XV, 

— 0-82 X 175 
= 143-5 c ft- P er pound. 






AIR EJECTORS AND AIR PUMPS 131 

From equation (72) the exit area A is 
A = i^wVJv s 

= (392 X 143-5 X i44)/(36oo X 3512) 

= 0*6406 sq. in., 

i.e. the exit diameter of ejector is 29/32 in 

In the equation of constant energy (equation 61) v d must be a positive 
quantity. If v d were zero or negative, the stream in the diffuser nozzle 
would break and the ejector would become deprimed. This condition 
of instability occurs if the diffuser throat area and discharge area are not 
properly proportioned to the quantity and velocity of the steam issuing 
from the steam nozzle and the quantity of air passing. In other words, 
if an ejector is designed to deal with a large quantity of air at a relatively 
low vacuum, and if the vacuum be raised by cutting down the air quantity, 
the ejector would become unstable at the higher vacuum unless the steam 
pressure be increased, so that the discharge velocity v d is maintained a posi¬ 
tive quantity. 

By allowing a variation in the discharge velocity v d an air ejector can 
be stably operated, when dealing with the relatively small air quantities, 
if the ratio between the discharge pressure and the suction pressure, or 
the compression ratio, as it is called, be kept under 8 to 1. Now the ratio 
between atmospheric pressure and a vacuum of 29*5 in. Hg is 60 to 1, 
but if the compression is performed in two stages, the intermediate absolute 
pressure p for this overall compression ratio would be given by 

Pl°'S = 3 o/p, 
i.e. p 2 = 15, 

p — 3*87 in. of mercury absolute, 
and the compression ratio on each stage would be 
3-87/0-5 = 30/3-87 = 7 '- 74 - 

The intermediate vacuum would be 

(30 — 3-87) = 26-13 in. Hg. 

A two-stage air ejector, therefore, will operate quite stably when dealing 
with varying quantities of air, and easily maintain a vacuum up to 29*5 in. 
Hg, when the conditions of temperature permit. It is on this question 
of stability that the majority of steam-jet operated air ejectors on the market 
to-day differ. They all employ two-stage compression with convergent- 
divergent steam nozzles, but vary in the means adopted to ensure stability. 
Monsieur Le Blanc, who did much of the pioneer work of steam-jet operated 
air ejectors, adopted the plan of admitting air into the throat of the second- 
stage diffuser; this virtually gave a throat diameter which varied with the 
quantity of air being dealt with, and this varied the virtual ratio of throat 
area to exit area. 



132 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


Monsieur Delaporte adopted the plan of admitting air between the 
stages of his ejectors; this air he admitted through a spring loaded valve 
which came into operation when the vacuum between the stages or the 
intermediate vacuum exceeded 26 in. Hg. This plan ensured that the 
compression ratio of the second stage would never go beyond 8 to 1, so that 
stability of this stage would be maintained and the first stage could then 
operate stably up to 29*5 in. Hg. 

The Delas air ejector maintains stability by means of water jacketing 
the diffuser nozzles. This water jacketing gives virtually a varying throat 
diameter, since at low vacua or when air leakage is present the diffuser is 
hotter than it is at high vacua or when the air leakage is small; a greater 
quantity of the steam passing through the diffuser will therefore be con¬ 
densed at low vacua than at high vacua, owing to the greater temperature 
drop across the diffuser wall, and, consequently, the virtual throat diameter 
will be larger at low vacua than at high vacua, thus providing sufficient 
area for the greater air quantity passing at the low vacua. 

Many modern steam-jet operated air ejectors, however, simply rely on 
the variation in the discharge velocity v d and air dealing efficiency over the 
working range of air leakage. Ejectors designed on this principle will, 
however, have a smaller air dealing capacity at abnormally large air leak¬ 
ages, but against this the ejector is simplified, and on any specific plant it 
should always be possible to maintain the leakage under the allowable value 
given on p. 37. 

The following relation is sometimes used to estimate the air and vapour 
extracted per pound of steam used by an air ejector of the reversed nozzle 
type. It is based on the following assumptions: 

1. That the compression exponent in the diffuser nozzle is the same as 
the expansion exponent in the steam nozzle, and that the expansion and 
compression are adiabatic. 

2. That the discharge velocity v d is zero. The work done per pound 
of steam in the nozzle in imparting velocity to the steam is 

{»/(# - I)}(PV - P 1 V 1 )I 44 , 

where P x is the suction pressure in pounds per square inch absolute, and 
is the suction volume in cubic feet per pound of steam. 

If w is the weight of air and vapour extracted per pound of steam used, 
i.e. (m + m v ); 

P* the discharge pressure in pounds per square inch absolute; and 
V* the volume at discharge in cubic feet per pound of mixture; 
then the total work done in the diffuser peX pound of steam used is 

{»/(«- OlfaV, -P 1 v 1 )(^ + 1)144. 

These two quantities must be equal, 

{«/(« - I)}(PV - P1VO144 = {«/(» - *)} (W - PiV,) (w + 1)144. 



AIR EJECTORS AND AIR PUMPS 


i 33 


Again, if E d be the diffuser efficiency, and E the efficiency of the steam 
nozzle, the above expression becomes: 

{ m /(«-i)}(PV-P 1 V 1 )i 44 E = {n/(n—i)}(P d V d —P X V 1) (w+i)i44X i/E d , 
or w = EE rf [(PV—PjVjJ/fPjV^—P jVj)]—1. 

Since the expansion and compression are adiabatic: 

PV" = P^”, 
or V = V^/P)■•'", 

and V* = V^PJP d y'\ 

Then, substituting these values of V and Y dy we get 

*0 = EEijPV^/P)» - P 1 V 1 }/{P 4f V 1 (P 1 /P <f )'■- - P X V X }] - 1 
= EE d [{P (n_I)/n - P^- ) .-}/{p 4f (-o;» _ p^-o-j] - x .( 73 ) 

Example. —Using the above expression, find the efficiency of the diffuser 
nozzle in the first stage of a two-stage air ejector, which is supplied with 
steam at a gauge pressure of 100 lb. per square inch, and maintains a vacuum 
of 28*75 in. Hg, with a barometer of 30 in. Hg. The temperature of the 
air and vapour entering the suction is 79 0 F . and the weight of air passing 
is 80 lb. per hour. The steam used is 100 lb. per hour, and the inter¬ 
mediate vacuum between the stages of the ejector is 25*5 in. Hg. 

First, find the mass of vapour which is associated with the air at the 
ejector suction. 

The partial air pressure p a is 

p a = (vapour pressure corresponding to 79 0 F.) — 28*75 
= 29 — 28*75 
= 0*25 in. Hg. 

Then V* = (12*39 X 3 °) ( 459 * 6 + 79 )/[°' 2 5 ( 459 ’ 6 X 32;] 

= 1628. 

From the steam tables the volume per pound of vapour at 79 0 F. 
^ 657 c. ft. 

The weight of vapour therefore associated with 1 lb. of air will be 

= 1628/657 
= 2*48 lb. per pound. 

The total weight of air and vapour entering the ejector suction will be 

= (1 + 2*48)80 
= 278*4 lb. per hour. 

Then w , the weight of air and vapour per pound of steam, will be 

= 278*4/100 
= 2784 lb. per pound. 




134 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


Taking n — 1-3, E = 0-85, P = 1147 lb. per square inch., 
and P x = (30 - 2875) X 147/30 
= 0-613 lb. per square inch, 
and P d = (30 - 25-5) X 14-7/30 

= 2-205 lb. per square inch, 

we have, by substituting in equation (73), 

2-79 = 0-85E,, 

X[{ii 47 (, 3_,)/, ' 3 -o- 6 i 3 (I 3 - ,) ‘■ 3 }/{ 2 - 205 (, ' 3-i)/i ' 3 —o- 6 i 3 (I ' 3_,)/I ' 3 }] —1 

= o-85E d [(2-987 - o-893)/(i- 2 - 0-893)] - 1 
— o-85E d x 6-82 — 1, 
or E d = 3-79/(0-85 X 6-82) 

= 0-65 or 65 per cent. 

Example .—Find the weight of air and vapour which is dealt with by 
a single-stage air ejector of the reversed nozzle type, when the ejector is 
maintaining a vacuum of 26 in. Hg at a suction temperature of ioo° F. The 
steam used by the ejector is 550 lb. per hour, and the supply steam pressure 
is 140 lb. per square inch gauge. The ejector discharges against a pressure 
of 16 lb. per square inch, and the efficiencies of the steam nozzle and 
diffuser nozzle are 85 per cent and 70 per cent respectively. 

From equation (73) the weight of air and vapour w is: 

w = EE (/ [{P (n - ,)n - p i (»- , )»j.//p (i ("-)." _ P/--0 _ I 

= 0-85 X 07[i547 (l3_,)I ' 3 — {(30 — 26)147/30] (13 -0 1 a] 

-f- [i6 (l 3-,)13 — {(30 — 26)147/30} (l 3-0 I 3 j — 1 
= 0-85 x o-7[(3'2 — 1-168) (1-892 — 1 -168)] — 1 
= 2-28 — 1 

= 1-28 lb. per pound of steam. 

The total weight of air and vapour dealt with will be 

1-28 X 550 

= 704 lb. per hour. 

The partial air pressure p a is 

p a = 28-07 — 26 
= 2-07 in. Hg. 

Then V a = (12-39 X 3 °) ( 4 S 9 -6 + ioo)/[2-07(459-6 + 32)] 

— 204-4 c. ft. per pound. 

The specific volume of the vapour at ioo° F. is 350-8 c. ft. per pound, 
and the weight of associated vapour per pound of air will therefore be 

= 204-4/350-8 

= 0-5825 lb. per pound. 



AIR EJECTORS AND AIR PUMPS 


i35 


The total weight of dry air dealt with will be 

= 704/(i + 0-5825) 
= 445 lb. per hour, 

and the total weight of vapour will be 

704 - 445 

= 259 lb. per hour. 


MIRRLEES AIR EJECTORS 


Fig. 53 illustrates the simple 
type of air ejector as manufactured 
by Messrs. The Mirrlees Watson 
Company, Glasgow, and known as 
Mirrlees-Le Blanc Multi-jector Air 
Pump. The simple type is so named 
because no inter-condenser is em¬ 
ployed between the stages to con¬ 
dense the steam used in the first 
stage. 

F is the suction branch which is 
connected to the condenser, C the 
first stage steam nozzle, and D the 
first stage compression pipe or dif¬ 
fuser. The steam supply to the first 
stage nozzle C is through the steam 
pipe H and strainer A. The steam 
issuing from the nozzle C entrains 
the air and vapour entering the 
suction branch F, the whole mass 
of air, vapour, and steam is dis¬ 
charged into the compression pipe 
with considerable velocity and a 
small pressure rise is obtained in the 
diffuser E. There is, however, a 
considerable residual velocity which 
reduces the momentum imparted by 
the second stage nozzles. These 
nozzles are shown at C 2 ; B 2 is the 
second stage suction chamber, D 2 the 
second stage compression pipe, and 
E 2 the second stage diffuser nozzle. 



Fig. 53.—Mirrlees-Le Blanc Multi-jector Air Pump 
—Simple Type 


G is the main steam supply to the 

second stage steam chest A 2 , and from this steam chest the first stage steam 
supply is taken. The steam issuing from the second stage steam nozzles 




136 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


C 2 entrains the total mass of air, vapour, and steam discharged from the 
first stage, and compresses this mass along with its own steam in the dif¬ 
fuser E 2 , where the kinetic energy is transformed into useful work in over¬ 
coming the atmospheric pressure at the discharge end J. This arrange¬ 
ment gives a very simple piece of apparatus, merely requiring three con¬ 
nections, these being the air suction pipe to the condenser, the steam supply 
pipe, and the discharge pipe. To start this ejector the makers recommend 
that the stop valve G be first opened and then the valve on the air suction 



Fig- 54-—Mirrlees Inter-condenser Type of Air Ejector 


branch F. The vacuum will then quickly rise and become stationary. 
When this is observed the steam supply valve to the first stage should be 
opened and the maximum vacuum, consistent with the air leakage and the 
temperature conditions prevailing on the plant, will then be obtained. 
These standard multi-ejectors are designed and manufactured for a mini¬ 
mum operating steam pressure of 85 lb. per square inch gauge. 

Fig. 54 illustrates the central-condenser or inter-condenser type of air 
ejector as manufactured by Messrs. The Mirrlees Watson Company. This 
type of ejector is more economical in steam than the simple type described, 
owing to the steam used in the first stage being condensed in the central 
condenser and not having to be ejected by the second stage. Two stages 



AIR EJECTORS AND AIR PUMPS 


r 37 


are employed with a condenser situated between the stages. B is the air 
suction which is connected to the main condenser, C is a steam nozzle, 
D a convergent compression pipe, and E a diffuser nozzle. The air and 
vapour entering the air suction B is entrained by the steam issuing from 
the steam nozzle C, and discharged through the compression pipe D and 
diffuser E to the bottom of the central condenser. At the top of the central 
condenser there is a spraying box which receives condensate usually from 
the discharge of the water-extraction pump. This condensate is sprayed 
in the spraying box and falling down through the condenser, condenses 
the steam discharged from the diffuser E of the first stage, and cools the 
rising air, thus increasing its density. This cooled air and its associated 
vapour pass to the second stage, where a second compression takes place 



Fig. 55-—Mirrlees Test Chart 


and the air is discharged to the atmosphere. The injection water and 
condensed steam from the first stage pass out at the bottom of central 
condenser to the water-extraction pump suction pipe, through a looped pipe 
which is vented to the main condenser by a small vent pipe. The vacuum 
carried in the central condenser is normally 24 to 25 in. Hg, w 7 hich gives 
a compression of about 5 to 1, depending upon the vacuum being carried 
in the main condenser. 

The steam chests, nozzle holders, and nozzles are made of a special 
hard close-grained gun-metal suitable for high pressure steam and super¬ 
heat. The convergent compression pipes and w r ater spraying box are of 
gun-metal. The remaining parts of the ejector are of close-grained cast iron. 

When starting up this type of ejector a supplementary supply of cold 
water is necessary for the central condenser. Once the main unit is run¬ 
ning and the water-extraction pump is receiving condensate from the main 
condenser this supplementary supply can be shut off, and the condensation 
in the central condenser effected by the condensate discharged from the 
water-extraction pump. 



STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 



Messrs. The Mirrlees Watson Company manufacture two styles of this 


type of air ejector. One, which is styled type A compression, uses 17 per 
cent of the operating steam in the first stage and the remaining 83 per cent 
in the second stage; the other, which is styled type B compression, uses 
approximately 50 per cent of the operating steam in each stage at full load. 



Type B compression has 
the great advantage that 
at reduced air leakages the 
steam supply to the first 
stage ejector can be cut 
down, thereby effecting 
an economy in steam and 
giving a certain degree of 
flexibility to the apparatus. 

Fig. 55 shows a stan¬ 
dard test chart from a 
central-condenser type of 
air ejector as manufac¬ 
tured by Messrs. The A Iirr- 
lees Watson Company, and 
having a maximum steam 
consumption of 700 lb. 
per hour. This chart 
clearly indicates how a 



Fig. 56.—Mirrlees Surface Condenser, with Central Condenser 
Type of Air Ejector 


great saving in steam can 
be effected by cutting 
down the steam supply to 
the first stage when the 
air being handled falls 
below 85 lb. per hour. 

An air ejector of the 
simple type and having 
a performance equal to 
that shown in fig. 55 would 
have a steam consumption 
of approximately twice 
that given above for the 
central-condenser type. 


APPLICATION TO SURFACE CONDENSERS 

Fig. 56 illustrates the application of the central-condenser type of air 
ejector to a surface condenser. 

The ejector is carried on the turbine floor-level, so that the operating 
valves are close to the turbine attendant, and the central condenser is easily 
drained to the water-extraction pump suctiun piping. A is the steam 













AIR EJECTORS AND AIR PUMPS 


139 


supply to the ejectors; B the air suction piping from the main condenser; 
C the supplementary water supply for starting up purposes; D the con¬ 
densate discharge from the water-extraction pump to the central con¬ 
denser; E the discharge from the second stage ejector; and F is the central 
condenser drain to the water-extraction pump suction. It will be noted 
that this drain pipe is looped so as to form a water seal. The reason for 
this is because of the difference in vacuum between that in the main con¬ 
denser and that in the central condenser; without this seal or loop air, 
which had already been extracted and compressed in the first stage ejector, 
would return to the main condenser only to be extracted again by the first 
stage ejector. An internal circulation of air would thus be set up which 
would reduce the effective air handling capacity of the ejector. The height 
of this loop should exceed the equivalent head of water of the difference 
in vacuum between that in the main condenser and that in the central con¬ 
denser. 

The drainage from the central condenser is at a temperature greater 
than the vacuum temperature in the main condenser; a percentage of the 
drainage water will therefore pass into vapour, as the drainage water comes 
under reduced pressure, in passing through the loop or seal. This vapour 
must be released, and if the main condenser ; s fitted with an integral air 
cooler the seal should be released to the main condenser. If no air cooler 
be fitted to the main condenser it may be released to the ejector suction 
pipe as shown, otherwise the effectiveness of the intergral air cooler would 
be nullified by the injection of this relative hot vapour into the cold ejector 
suction pipe. 

HICK-BREGUET EJECTORS 

The air ejectors made by Messrs. Hick Hargreaves, Limited, Bolton, 
are manufactured under the patents of M. Delaporte of Messrs. Breguet, 
Paris. This ejector is of the two-stage type 
with an intermediate jet condenser to condense 
the steam used in the first stage, and is very 
similar to the Mirrlees central-condenser type 
of air ejector previously described. The main 
difference lies in the automatic spring loaded 
air inlet waive situated between the stages. 

This valve admits air when the vacuum in the 
intermediate condenser rises above 26 in. Hg, 
thus maintaining the compression ratio in the 
second stage ejector under 7-5 (see p. 131) to 
ensure stability of action. 

The ejector is shown in section in fig. 57 and 
in outside view in fig. 58. A is the first stage 
ejector; C is the second stage ejector; B is the 
intermediate jet condenser; D is the suction branch which is connected to the 
condenser; E is the steam supply to the first stage nozzle; F is the steam 



Fig. 57.—Section of Hick-Breguet 
Ejector 



140 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


supply to the second stage nozzle; G is the water inlet to the intermediate 
condenser; and H is the drain from the intermediate condenser to the main 



Fig. 58.—Hick-Breguet Ejector 


condenser. The automatic air inlet is shown in fig. 58 at the side of the 
second' stage ejector. This air inlet has a spring controlled valve which 






VACUUM IN INCHES OF MERCURY 


AIR EJECTORS AND AIR PUMPS 


141 



Curve No. 1 shows Vacuum obtained with Water leaving the Condenser at 91 0 F. Curve No. 2 gives the 
corresponding Volumes. Curve No. 3 shows Vacuum obtained with Water leaving the Ccndenser at 91 0 F., 
the Cooler being fed with Water at 64 5 0 F. Curve No. 4 gives the corresponding Volumes. 


ENCINE ROOM FLOOR 



Fig. 60.—Arrangement of Jet Condenser, fitted with Breguet Ejector 














142 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


has an adjustment so that it may be set to open at any desired vacuum. 
These ejectors are normally designed with a steam consumption ratio 
between the second and first stages of 2 to 1, that is, the second stage takes 
two-thirds of the total steam used by the ejector. The makers claim that 
these ejectors will work ordinarily at any pressure above 55 lb. per square 
inch, but where the pressure is below this limit a specially designed ejector 
must be used. 

Fig. 59 shows the results obtained on test by an ejector using 193 lb. 
of steam per hour when working in conjunction with a jet condenser 
dealing with 22,000 gall, of injection water per hour. Known quantities 
of air were admitted through specially calibrated pipes and the vacua 
recorded with these air leakages were noted. 

These curves are self explanatory and show the air handling capacity 
of this apparatus. 

Fig. 60 shows the application of the ejector to a Hick-Breguet jet con¬ 
denser. A is the first stage ejector; C is the second stage ejector; B is 
the intermediate jet condenser; and E is the main jet condenser. The 
water for the intermediate condenser is taken from main condenser injec¬ 
tion. The loop pipe or seal through which the intermediate condenser 
drains to the main condenser is shown at F. 

WEIR AIR EJECTORS 

Messrs. G. & J. Weir, Ltd., Glasgow, manufacture both the two- 
stage simple and the two-stage with inter-condenser types of air ejectors. 
The standard ejectors manufactured by this firm are designed for a mini¬ 
mum steam pressure of 150 lb. per square inch gauge. 

Fig. 61 shows the standard simple type. Two stages are employed 
with a steam consumption ratio of 1 to 20 between the first and second 
stages. 

A is the air suction which is connected to the main condenser; B is 
the first stage steam nozzle; C is the second stage steam nozzle; D is the 
first stage diffuser; E is the second stage diffuser; F is the first stage air 
suction chamber which incorporates a light non-return valve G. This 
valve comes into action when the steam pressure falls below the designed 
pressure and prevents a sudden fall in the vacuum. When the steam 
pressure is 150 lb. per square inch or over, the valve is open and inoper¬ 
ative. H is the main steam supply, the first stage steam nozzle being fed 
through the pipe J. The steam nozzles are arranged as a group of very 
small convergent-divergent nozzles to present a large jet surface to the 
air and vapour. The entrainment of the air and vapour is accomplished 
by the friction of the high velocity jet of steam issuing from the steam 
nozzles. There are practical limitations, however, which limit the size 
to which these nozzles can be reduced quite independent of a decrease 
in nozzle efficiency with decrease in size. The liability of very small 
nozzles to become choked with dirt or scale off the steam pipes limits their 



AIR EJECTORS AND AIR PUMPS 


*43 


size, and to counteract this evil it is a customary practice to fit a strainer 
in the steam pipe to strain the steam before it passes to the steam nozzles. 
These small nozzles, as manufactured by Messrs. G. & J. Weir, Ltd., are 
made with a throat diameter of 3/32 in. and the holes in the steam strainer 
1/16 in. in diameter. This combination has been found to give no trouble 
in practical operation. The material of which these nozzles are made is 
Monel metal, which is a copper nickel natural alloy, having a composition 
of 27-29 per cent copper, 68-70 per cent nickel, and 4-5 per cent manganese. 
This metal is non-corrosive and is highly resistant to the erosion caused by 



high velocity steam. The diffuser nozzles are made in hard gun-metal. 
When the ejector has to operate with superheated steam, all parts which 
come into contact with the steam are made in steel, except the steam valve 
faces which are of Monel metal. 

Fig. 62 shows the inter-condenser type of air ejector as made by Messrs. 
G. & J. Weir, Ltd. This figure is self explanatory, and the first and second 
stage ejectors follow generally the description given for the simple type. The 
inter-condenser is of the surface type having f-in. outside diameter condenser 
tubes, ferruled into brass tube plates to allow for expansion and contraction, 
and is similar to any small ordinary condenser. The cooling water for 
the condenser is taken from the cooling water system of the main condenser 
for marine installations, and from the condensate pump discharge for land 
installations and enters at the bottom as shown; it makes four passes and 
leaves at the top. The steam, air, and vapour discharged from the first 
stage enters at the top right-hand end, and the cooled air with its associated 
vapour and the condensed steam leave at the bottom left-hand end. The 
outlet pipe forms a loop, the air and vapour passing upwards to the second 





th—i ST stage condensate 

Fig. 62.— Weir’s Inter-condenser Type of Air Ejector DRAIN TO MAIN CONDENSER 





AIR EJECTORS AND AIR PUMPS 


•45 


stage inlet, while the condensed steam is drained to the main condenser 
by a small bore drain pipe. No attempt is made by the makers to loop 
this drain pipe in a manner similar to that adopted for the Mirrlees Watson 
multi-jectors or for the Hick-Breguet ejectors, because of the very small 
bore of the pipe. The bore is so chosen that the pipe runs practically full, 
and whatever leak back of air there may be to the main condenser has been 
found from practical experience to have no detrimental effect on the vacuum. 
This type of air ejector is specially suited for marine conditions, because 
of the adoption of surface inter-condensers with a circulation of sea water. 



Fig. 63. Air Capacity Test Sheet to Air Ejector 


One of the duties demanded of an air ejector fitted to a main condenser 
on board ship is that during manoeuvring or during a sudden shut down 
of the main engines the air ejector must maintain the vacuum. If the air 
ejector, therefore, be supplied with condensate as the cooling medium for 
its inter-condenser, then when the main engines are stopped the cooling 
water supply to the inter-condenser is stopped, or so far reduced as to up¬ 
set the working of the ejector, and thus materially impair the vacuum. A 
supplementary cooling water supply would need to be provided, which 
means added complication. The heat in the first stage ejector discharge 
is, however, lost with Messrs. G. & J. Weir’s design of inter-condenser 
as fitted on board ship, and no claim is made by the makers for its recovery; 
the loop pipe arrangement with release to the main condenser is equally bad 
in this respect, because of the self evaporation of the drain water from the 
jet intermediate condenser, owing to the reduction in pressure which the 

( D 450 ) 10 




146 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


drain undergoes in flowing from the intermediate condenser to the top of 
the loop. 

The Weir air ejectors are started by simply opening the steam valve. 

The steam consumption ratio of a Weir air ejector of the inter-condenser 
design between the first and second stages is about 1 to 2-3, and a works 
test sheet showing the air handling capacity is shown in fig. 63. The 
ejector under test had a steam consumption of 560 lb. per hour, the steam 
supply pressure being 150 lb. per square inch gauge. 


RADOJET AIR EJECTORS 


Suction 


The Radojet air ejector is of American origin, and is handled in this 
country by Messrs. John Musgrave & Sons, Limited, Bolton. The 

Radojet ejector or air pump takes its 
name from the form of steam jet and 
diffuser employed; the flow is radial, 
the steam being projected by the 
steam nozzle in a thin sheet or disc 
into the radial flow diffuser nozzle. 
The radial flow type of ejector is only 
used for the second stage, the first 
stage being a normal tubular reversed 
nozzle ejector. They are manufactured 
with or without inter-condensers, and 
suitable for steam pressures from 80 lb. 
per square inch upwards. 

Fig. 64 shows a two-stage Radojet 
without inter-condenser. The first 

stage is at the top, and it will be seen 
that this is a normal tubular ejector 
with a group of small convergent-di¬ 
vergent steam nozzles. The discharge 
from the first stage passes to the 
second stage suction chamber 1 by the 
ducts 2. The steam enters at 3, and 
enters the second stage steam nozzle 
4; the throat of this steam nozzle is 
circular and of constant area, the diver¬ 
gent part of the steam nozzle is, how¬ 
ever, disc shaped by the flow taking 
place between the disc 5 and the 
disc-shaped end of the steam nozzle 4. 
The diffuser 6 is similarly formed by the disc-shaped diffuser walls. The 
steam leaves the steam nozzle as a high velocity disc of steam with radial 
flow, and passing across the suction chambers 1 entrains the air and vapour 
by surface friction on both sides of this disc of high velocity steam. The 



DISCHARGE 

Fig. 64—Two-stage Radojet Air Ejector 



AIR EJECTORS AND AIR PUMPS 


H 7 


combined mass of air, vapour, and steam enters the radial flow diffuser 
where the kinetic energy is transformed into pressure energy by the 
gradually increasing area of the diffuser. The radial diffuser discharges 
directly into the exhaust belt 7, and thence to the discharge 8. The first 
stage ejector is fed from the steam inlet 3 by the small vertical pipe 9 
passing to the first stage nozzles. One of the characteristics of this ejector 
is the variable expansion which the construction makes possible in the 
radial steam nozzle. 



Fig. 65.—Dry Air Handling Capacity of a Two-stage Radojet Air Ejector 


It will be noticed that the right-hand half, 5, of the radial steam nozzle 
is screwed at 10 into the casing, so that by rotating this half of the nozzle by 
the square cut on the spindle end of the nozzle the discs forming the 
diverging part of the steam nozzle can be brought closer together or farther 
apart as desired. Since the throat area is constant this adjustment provides 
a steam nozzle with a variable or adjustable expansion ratio. 

Fig. 65 shows the dry air handling capacity of such a two-stage Radojet 
without an inter-condenser, when supplied with dry saturated steam. 
Curve A shows the performance of a two-stage Radojet, and curve B 
shows the performance of a single-stage Radojet having the same steam 
consumption as the two-stage apparatus. These curves are of interest 
since they intersect at a vacuum of about 25 in. Hg, thus showing that 









148 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


for vacua of 25 in. Hg and under only a single stage should be employed. 

The Radojet air pump is manufactured with an inter-condenser of both 
the surface and jet types. 

Fig. 66 shows the design adopted for the surface type of inter-condenser 
air pump. 



The first and second stages follow the general lines adopted for their air 
pumps without an inter-condenser, as already described. The surface inter¬ 
condenser is of the tubular type with the tubes placed vertically. These tubes 
are expanded into the top tube plate, and ferruled into the bottom tube plate 
to allow for expansion. The steam is inside the tubes, and the cooling water 
is outside the tubes. The illustration shows a four-pass condenser; the 




AIR EJECTORS AND AIR PUMPS 


149 


number of passes adopted, however, varies from two to six, depending upon 
the size and operating conditions of the air pump. 

Referring to fig. 66 the operation is as follows. The discharge from the 
first stage ejector enters the compartment B and flows downwards through 
the inside of the tubes d , where the greater proportion of the steam is con¬ 
densed. The condensed steam drains to the bottom of the compartment C, 
and is drained away by the drain pipe a , the remaining portion of the 
steam along with the air passes upwards through the tubes t , where a further 
portion of the steam is condensed and drains back to the compartment C 



Fig. 6 7 .—Dry Air Handling of a Two-stage Radojet with Surface Inter-condenser 


by the drain tubes d of the second pass. These drain tubes are fitted at the 
bottom with a water seal, as shown at b and c, so that no upward flow 
can take place in the drain tubes d because of the higher pressure carried in 
the compartment C. The process is repeated in the two following passes, 
the air and its associated vapour emerging into the compartment H in a cooled 
condition, while the condensed steam is drained from the compartment F. 
The circulating water is arranged contra-flow to the air, steam, and vapour, 
to give the maximum degree of cooling to the air. The air and vapour then 
pass to the suction of the second stage Radojet. 

Fig. 67 shows the dry air handling performance of a two-stage Radojet 
with surface inter-condenser when supplied with dry saturated steam at 
125 lb. per square inch gauge, and exhausting against a back pressure 
of \ lb. per square inch gauge. The relative steam consumptions 
of the Radojet air pump with inter-condenser, and without an inter- 





Fig. 68.—Method of Installing the Radojet Air Pump to a Surface Condenser 






















AIR EJECTORS AND AIR PUMPS 


151 

condenser, is approximately one-half for the same air handling capacity. 

When starting up the Radojet the makers recommend that the second 
stage should be put into operation first, and when the vacuum reaches 
25 in. Hg for the Radojet without inter-condenser, and 20 in. Hg for 
the Radojet with inter-condenser, the first stage should be put into 
operation. 

Fig. 68 shows the method of installing the Radojet air pump to a surface 
condenser. 

The supply steam to the Radojet is passed through a pressure regulator, 
so that a constant steam pressure is supplied to the nozzles. A gate valve is 
fitted between the Radojet suction and the condenser, which should be opened 
before starting up the air pump. The discharge is led through a swing check 
valve to the feed tank, and the end of the discharge pipe which is inside the 
feed tank is perforated on its under side. The condensate pump discharge 
pipe enters the feed tank immediately under the Radojet discharge pipe, and 
the internal pipe is perforated on its top side. When the Radojet and con¬ 
densate pump are operating the steam issuing from the perforations on the 
top pipe meets the cold condensate issuing from the perforations on the 
bottom pipe, which results in a quiet and complete condensation of the dis¬ 
charge steam. The air rises up through the water and escapes by the vent 
pipe, the water passing on to the filters. The condensate pump illustrated is 
of the direct-acting type, float controlled from the hotwell, and bolted to the 
bottom of the condenser. The small float operates the steam throttle valve 
which admits steam to the pump, and thus regulates the pump speed, so that 
there is always a head on the suction valves of about 5 ft. This head enables 
the pump to extract the condensate against the vacuum in the condenser. 
A thermostat is fitted to the feed tank, and controls by temperature the 
thermostat valve on the recirculating pipe. This thermostat comes into 
operation at low loads or when the quantity of condensate is not sufficient to 
condense the exhaust steam from the Radojet. When the exhaust steam 
cannot be condensed the thermostat heats up, which results in the thermostat 
valve opening, and water is drawn from the feed tank through the recirculating 
pipe into the main condenser; this water is sprayed down among the cold 
condenser tubes and thus becomes cooled, and falls into the hotwell as cold 
water. The condensate pump therefore receives a supply of cold water, 
which is discharged to the feed tank, thus condensing the exhaust steam from 
the Radojet. The quantity of water in circulation is automatically regulated 
by the thermostat, and is always just sufficient to ensure complete condensation 
of the exhaust steam. 


DELAS AIR EXTRACTORS 

All the air ejectors described so far have been of the reversed nozzle type, 
with approximately adiabatic compression in the diffuser nozzle. In the 
Delas air extractor the diffuser is water jacketed by a circulation of cold 
water which results in the compression approaching the isothermal, and, as 



152 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


was stated on p. 132, gives perfect stability by causing the throat to be 
virtually variable in area. 

The work done with isothermal compression is less than that done with 
adiabatic compression, so that the work done in the diffuser will be less than 
that done in a diffuser of the reversed nozzle type with no water jacket. For 
equal air handling capacity, therefore, this ejector should use less steam than 
an air ejector with adiabatic compression. As an offset against this, however, 
the heat taken up from the steam in the water 
jackets is lost in the cooling water, and is therefore 
not available for feed heating. This quantity of 
lost heat is stated to be not more than 5 per cent of 
the total in the commercial extractor. 

This extractor is manufactured in England 
under licence from Societe des Condenseurs Delas 
by Messrs. Cole Marchant & Morley, Ltd., Brad¬ 
ford, and Messrs. The Brush Electrical Company, 
Loughborough. They are made in two types, 
the simple type with no inter-condenser, and the 
inter-condenser type. 

Fig. 69 illustrates the simple type as manufac¬ 
tured by Messrs. Cole Marchant & Morley. 

The extractor is of the two-stage type with 
single steam nozzles supplied from the steam inlet 
branch A. B is the air suction which is connected 
to the condenser; C is the second stage discharge 
to feed tank or heater. The jacket cooling water 
which is taken from the main circulating water 
inlet of the main condenser enters at D and passes 
down through the first stage jacket; it passes to the 
second stage jacket G by the pipe H, and passes 
down the second stage jacket and leaves at E. 
The diffusers are of convergent-parallel type, and 
are made of thin copper to allow of an easy transfer 
of heat through the diffuser wall. 

The diffusers and jackets are encased in a cast- 
iron casing J to give the apparatus rigidity, and the differential longitudinal 
expansion between the copper diffusers and the cast-iron casing is taken up 
by flat diaphragm plates K. 

The steam consumption ratio of the first and second stages is about 1 to 
19, and the air handling capacity curve is shown in fig. 70. The steam 
supply pressure was 145 lb. per square inch gauge, and the steam temperature 
5 i8 °F. 

The latest design of two-stage extractor with intermediate condenser is 
shown in fig. 71. A is the air suction; B, the first stage steam nozzle; C, the 
second stage steam nozzle; D, the first stage diffuser; E, the second stage 
diffuser; F, the second stage discharge; and G, the intermediate condenser 






Fig. 69. 


—Delas Air Extractor— 
Simple Type 



AIR EJECTORS AND AIR PUMPS 


153 



drain to the main condenser or water-extraction pump suction pipe. The 
intermediate condenser is of the jet type, and is formed by a ring of holes 
H being drilled round the end of the first 
stage diffuser, so that a supply of water for 
condensing the steam discharged by the first 
stage is drawn from the first stage water 
jacket J. K is the second stage jacket, and 
in this extractor the jacket water and inter¬ 
mediate condenser water is condensate taken 
from the discharge of the water-extraction 
pump. The inlet for this water is at L. 

The water first passes upwards through the 
jacket K, thence it passes across by the duct 
M to the first stage jacket J, and flows down¬ 
wards through the first-stage jacket and enters 
the intermediate condenser by being sprayed 
through the holes H. This water along with 
the condensed steam from the first stage falls 
to the drain branch G, and the air along 
with its associated vapour passes upwards to 
receive its second compression in the second 
stage. Both stages, along with the inter¬ 
mediate condenser, are encased in a single 
casting N, which makes for simplicity. 

Fig. 72 shows this extractor and its con¬ 
nections to a surface condenser. A is the 

extractor connected to the condenser B by the air suction pipe C; D is 
the steam supply branch, and E the drain to the water-extraction pump 



Fig. 71.—Delas Two-stage Air Extractor 

























1 54 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


suction. This drain water first passes to a float control box F, which per¬ 
forms the same function as the loop pipe or U-tube previously described and 
illustrated in fig. 60, and allows the water to drain freely, while at the same 



Fig. 72.—Delas Two-stage Air Extractor fitted to a Surface Condenser 


time preventing a leak back of air to the main condenser. G is a water-extrac¬ 
tion pump drawing the condensate from the main condenser B through the 
suction pipe H, and discharging through a surface heater L, which receives 



Fig. 73.—Air Handling Performance of the Cole Marchant & Morley Delas Air Extractor 


the discharge from the second stage ejector by the pipe M, thus conserving 
the heat discharged by the second stage. The circulating or cooling water 
for the jackets and the intermediate condenser is taken from the extraction 
pump discharge by the pipe N, and returns to the extraction pump suction 
via the drain E and float box F. When starting these extractors the cooling 


















AIR EJECTORS AND AIR PUMPS 


i 55 


water supply should be circulating before the steam is turned on. 

Fig. 73 shows the air dealing performance of the latest type of Cole 
Marchant & Morley Delas extractor. This extractor was supplied with 
saturated steam at a pressure of 115 lb. per square inch gauge, and the steam 
consumption was 175 lb. per hour. The air being dealt with was saturated 
with water vapour at a temperature of 75 0 F. The lower curve shows the 
vacuum which was maintained in the intermediate condenser. 

The water jacketed diffuser does not give complete isothermal compres¬ 
sion, the actual compression line lying between the adiabatic and the iso¬ 
thermal. If the compression be performed along the saturation line, that is, 
if the temperature and pressure of the steam at any point in the compression 
correspond, then the numerical value of the exponent n will be M, and the 
characteristic equation for the compression will be 

pyi6 15 _ constant = 490. 

The formulae given for adiabatic compression will hold for this case if the 
above value be given to the exponent n . 

AIR AND STEAM OPERATED EJECTOR 

In an arrangement of an ejector air pump adopted by Messrs. Brown, 
Boveri, & Co., the first stage is supplied with atmospheric air, while the 
second stage is supplied with high-pressure steam. The arrangement is 
shown in fig. 74. 

A is the first stage ejector, 
and B is the second stage; C 
is the air suction branch, and 
D is the second stage dis¬ 
charge. The first stage nozzle 
E is fed with atmospheric air 
under the control of the valve 
F, the air entering at H. The 
nozzle E is of the convergent- 
divergent type; the air ex¬ 
panding through this nozzle 
attains a high velocity, and 
gives to the entrained air its 
first compression in the first 

stage diffuser. The second stage steam nozzle J is also ot the convergent- 
divergent type and receives its steam supply at K. The second stage jet 
entrains the mass of entrained and operating air from the first stage, 
and discharges it through the second stage diffuser against atmospheric 
pressure. The discharge from D is led to a small condenser, where the 
steam is condensed and the air with its associated vapour liberated to 
atmosphere. This type of air pump has been fitted on the S.S. Westphalia 
with successful results. 



Fig. 74.—Brown-Boveri Ejector Air Pump 



STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


156 


MIRRLEES-LE BLANC ROTARY AIR PUMP 

This air pump is of the water-jet type, and has the characteristic that the 
necessary kinetic energy is produced in the apparatus itself. The water jet 
is not a solid one, but consists of a series of thin sheets or plugs of water 
between which are trapped the air and non-condensable gases. A section 
through the pump is shown in fig. 75, while fig. 42 (p. 94) shows the pump 
in outside view. Referring to fig. 75 the apparatus consists essentially of a 
rotating wheel driven by an electric-motor or other drive, and has a series of 

specially curved vanes arranged 
around the periphery of the wheel. 
Inside the rotating vanes is housed 
a distributor which has a nozzle¬ 
shaped outlet, suitably positioned 
so that as the rotating blades pass 
this nozzle they shear off slices of 
the water and impart to them a 
high velocity. These slices or 
thin sheets of water are discharged 
into a converging cone, and trap 
between them a certain volume of 
air and non-condensable gases 
which are drawn in through the 
air suction. These sheets of 
water are estimated to have a 
thickness of from four- to eight- 
thousandths of an inch, and have 
a tendency to enlarge as the 
throat of the converging cone is 
approached. A high velocity and 
compact column of w r ater and gases is produced in the throat of the con¬ 
verging cone. A diverging cone is fitted to the converging cone, and the 
kinetic energy at the throat section is transformed into work of compression 
in the diverging cone, thus overcoming the atmospheric pressure. 

As was stated on p. 93, one of the advantages of this pump is its in¬ 
herent ability to condense out a quantity of the vapour which is asso¬ 
ciated with the air and non-condensable gases. The quantity of vapour 
condensed out depends on the temperature and quantity of sealing water 
necessary for the efficient operation of the pump; also on the quantity of 
vapour associated with the air, which latter depends on the difference be¬ 
tween the vacuum temperature and the actual temperature of the air and 
vapour, or in other words, on the partial air pressure. This pump when 
supplied with cold sealing water possesses in itself an air cooler and de¬ 
vaporizer, which is a very valuable property as it adds greatly to the air 
dealing capacity of the apparatus. 

Fig. 76 shows the air handling capacity characteristics of this type of 





AIR EJECTORS AND AIR PUMPS 157 

air pump, and the power required to drive the pump at the varying air 
pressures. 

It should be noted that the pressures on this curve are absolute air 
pressures, that is, the partial pressure of the air which is associated with 
the vapour. For example, take a 28 in. Hg vacuum, with sealing water 
at 8o° F. with a barometer of 30 in. Hg. The vapour pressure at 8o° F. is 
28-93, so that the partial air pressure is 28-93 — 28, which equals 0-93 in. 
Hg. Descending from this air pressuie to the capacity curve, the weight 
of air dealt with is read on the left-hand scale, i.e. 95 lb. per hour. T his 


ABSOLUTE AIR PRESSURE IN INCHE5 Hg 

I. A I.C O .A rt e 



Fig. 76.—Mirrlees-Le Blanc Rotary Air Pump, Air Handling Capacity and Power Curves 

means that the pump will handle 95 lb. per hour of external air, which has 
leaked into the vacuum system, when supplied with sealing water at 8o° F., 
and maintain a vacuum of 28 in. Hg. At colder sealing water temperatures 
the vacuum would be higher when the pump was dealing with the same 
air quantity, and the increase would correspond to the lower vapour pressure 
of the colder sealing water. If we descend from the air pressure of 0*93 in. 
Hg to the power curve, we read the b.h.p. absorbed by the curve to be 55. 

The quantity of sealing water required by these pumps is approximately 
1 gall, per minute for each b.h.p. required to drive the pump, and the 
peripheral speed of the blade wheel rim is about 88 ft. per second. 







158 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


AIR PUMP CAPACITY TESTS AND AIR LEAK 
NOZZLES 

The capacity of an air pump is measured by the weight or volume of 
free air which the pump is capable of handling when maintaining a specific 
vacuum. 

The usual method of measuring the air capacity is by means of air leakage 
nozzles. The air is allowed to flow through these nozzles into the space 
being exhausted, and the quantity entering depends on the air temperature, 
the height of the barometer, and the throat diameter of the nozzles. The 
performance of the pump is usually set out as a curve plotted from a series 
of readings taken of vacuum attained against the weight of air handled, 
as calculated from the throat diameter of the air leak nozzles used. (See 
performance curves of air ejectors and air pumps, pp. 145 to 154.) 

Two methods of testing air pumps may be employed; one is known as 
the dry air capacity method, and the other as the saturated air capacity method. 
The former consists of fitting a blank flange to the air pump suction and 
fitting the leak nozzle and a connection for a mercury column to this blank 
flange. The vacua recorded, corrected to the barometer, is noted for various 
air leak nozzles and a curve plotted, which is taken as the dry air performance. 
The latter method consists of connecting the air pump suction to a closed 
vessel or tank. A water connection is fitted to the top of the tank, and is so 
arranged that the water is broken up into a spray as it enters; the air leak 
nozzle is fitted so that the air is intimately mixed with the water, and thus 
becomes saturated with vapour at the temperature which obtains in the 
tank. This saturated air is drawn off by the air pump, and from a series of 
readings of vacua and air leak nozzles a curve of performance is plotted for 
the water temperature in the tank. With kinetic apparatus, such as steam- 
jet operated ejectors, the former method always shows a greater air handling 
capacity; this is due to the associated vapour which is dealt with along 
with the air. For the extraction of 1 lb. of air the mass of fluid being dealt 
with in the former method is 1 lb., whereas, in the latter method, the mass 
is 1 lb. plus the mass of the associated vapour. In both cases the volume 
per pound of air is the same at the same temperature and the same air 
pressure, but the total absolute pressures will be different by the amount of 
the vapour pressure at that temperature. With displacement apparatus, 
such as reciprocating air pumps, it therefore follows that, for equal weights 
of air dealt with, the vacuum obtained during a test carried out by the 
former method will be higher than that attained during a test carried out by 
the latter method by the amount of the vapour pressure. In other words, if, 
during a dry air test of a displacement air pump, water at a certain tem¬ 
perature be admitted to the vessel being exhausted, the vacuum will fall by 
an amount equal to the vapour pressure at that temperature. 

With an air pump of the kinetic type it is the mass of fluid being handled 
that determines the vacuum, independent of the relative proportions of the 
air and vapour. This can be proved if an air pump of this type be first tested 



AIR EJECTORS AND AIR PUMPS 


159 


under dry air conditions and then tested under saturated air conditions, 
and curves of performance of each test plotted on the same diagram. It will 
be found from these curves that for any vacuum the weight of fluid handled 
in each case is very approximately the same. 

The curves given in fig. 17 (p. 40) are useful in finding the mass of vapour 
which is associated with 1 lb. of air at various vacua and temperatures (see 
also pp. 37 to 41). 

TO FIND THE QUANTITY OF AIR FLOWING 
THROUGH AN AIR NOZZLE 

Let fig. 77 represent the nozzle with the flow as indicated. 

Let Pjl, Vu and T x be the absolute pressure, volume, and absolute tempera¬ 
ture of the air entering; and 

P 2 , V 2 , and T 2 , the absolute pressure, volume, and absolute tempera¬ 
ture of the air at the throat section. 

It is customary to use nozzles of the con¬ 
vergent type, thereby eliminating any uncer¬ 
tainty about the coefficient of contraction 
which with this type of nozzle may be taken f? 
as unity. v, 

The expansion through the nozzle may be T| 
taken to be adiabatic with an exponent of 1-3. 

The exponent for pure dry air is 1*414, but 
atmospheric air has normally a percentage of 
vapour associated with it which reduces the Fig. 77—Air Nozzle 

exponent. 

Assuming then an exponent of 1*3, we find the ratio of the throat pressure 
to the initial pressure to be 

P2/P1 = {(1 +»)/ 

= {(1 + i- 3 )/ 2 } ,3;(,_,3) 

= (I-IS )" 4 ' 33 
= °- 54 6 - 

Also PjV," = PAY, 

or V 2 = (C/P 1 /P 2 )V 1 . 

The velocity at the throat section is 

® - V2 g{n/(n - 1)} {1 - (P 2 /PiPWr 

If a be the area of the throat section in square feet we get the volume 
flowing ,0 be V = „ X a c. ft. per second, 

and the mass flowing will be 

■m = v x aIV 2 lb. per second, 




160 STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 

which by substitution becomes 

m = [W ag{i- 3 /( i -3 - i)}{i - q- 5 4 6 o:! 3 o 8 }P 1 V 1 ]/( 1 v/ 1 - 832 )V 1 , 
or m = (av / 36*5P 1 V 1 )/(i-593V 1 ). 

P x and Vj depend upon the reading of the barometer and the air tempera¬ 
ture and the air humidity at the time of the test. The characteristic equa¬ 
tion for pure dry air is PV/T = constant, and for pure dry air the value 
of the constant is 53*3. For normal values of the humidity no serious error 
is involved by neglecting it, so that we may write PiV-l/T 1 ! = 53*3, where 
T x is the absolute temperature in degrees Fahrenheit of the air entering the 
nozzle. 

If H be the height of the barometer in inches of mercury then 

Pi = (H X 147 X i44)/30> 
and ^ = (syiTJKyo-GH). 

Then, substituting these values of P t and V x in the equation for the mass 
passing per second, we get 

m = |W(36-5 x 7o-6H x 53'3Ti)/(7o-6H)]/[(i-593 x 53‘3 T i)/(7°-6H)] 

= ( 3 6-6«H)/v/T 1 . 

If d be the throat diameter of the nozzle in inches, the mass of air passing 
the nozzle in pounds per hour is 

m = {(36-6 X 07854 X 36oo)/i44} {(^ 2 H)/v'T 1 } 

= (719 d*H)!*/T v 

If D be the throat diameter in millimetres, then 
m = (1 • 116D 2 H) /n/T\. 

The rule given by the B.E.A.M.A. for their standard air nozzle is 
m = (i-i 24 D 2 H)/v/T 1 , 

where D is the throat diameter in millimetres, and H the height of the baro¬ 
meter in inches of mercury, and Tj the absolute temperature in degrees 
Fahrenheit of the air entering the nozzle, and the coefficient of contraction 
allowed is 0*98. 


ALLOWABLE AIR LEAKAGE 

On p. 37 the B.E.A.M.A. rule for the allowable air leakage on land 
surface condensing plants was given. This was 

m — {(o-5W)/iooo} + 3 lb. dry air per hour. 

The above air quantity is for H.P. turbines, and for M.P. and L.P 



AIR EJECTORS AND AIR PUMPS 161 

turbines it should be multiplied by 1*5, while for reciprocating engines it 
should be multiplied by 2-5. 

Manufacturers now generally subject their air pumps to a capacity test, 



Fig. 78.—Curves of Allowable Air Leakage: Surface Condenser 


and for the purposes of such tests the B.E.A.M.A. have issued the following 
statement: 

The air pump connected to a closed vessel must be capable of main¬ 
taining in the closed vessel the specified vacuum when handling the above 
quantity of dry air admitted through a standard air nozzle, this air being 
saturated with water vapour by water at a temperature 5 0 F. above the inlet 

( D 450) 11 



























162 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


cooling water temperature, the water being sprayed into the closed vessel 
in quantities sufficient to saturate the air. 

The rules issued by the B.E.A.M.A. apply particularly to land condens¬ 
ing plant, and, so far as the author is aware, no authorities have issued similar 



Fig. 79.—Curves of Allowable Air Leakage: Jet Condenser 


rules for marine condensing plants; the allowance for air leakage has been 
left entirely in the hands of the air pump manufacturers. 

During the author’s experience with marine installations, and particularly 
with H.P. turbines of the Brown Curtis or Parsons designs, the average 
air leakage seldom exceeds two-thirds of that given by the above rule. 

In jet condensers the air which enters with the injection water should 





AIR EJECTORS AND AIR PUMPS 


163 

be allowed for in addition to that which enters by leakage, and this addition 
may be taken at 15 lb. per hour per 1000 gall, of injection water per minute 
at 6o° F. 

The author has prepared the curves shown in figs. 78 and 79 which 
provide ample margin for air leakage. Fig. 78 gives the dry air to be provided 
for in surface condensers for varying weights of steam condensed. With 
jet condensers a percentage of air enters with the injection water, this air 
in addition to that which enters by leakage and that which comes over with 
the steam has to be handled by the air pump, so that a larger air pumping 
capacity must be provided for with jet condensing plants than with surface 
condensing plants. Fig. 79 gives the quantity of this additional air to be 
provided for varying the inlet temperatures of injection water. 

The air enters as entrained air, and the quantity varies in accordance 
with the coefficient of absorption at each temperature, and with the mechanical 
treatment the water has received before entering the condenser; that is, 
water which is drawn from a pond is found to have less air in it than water 
drawn from a fast flowing river. The air to be provided for then in a jet 
condenser is the sum of that given in figs. 78 and 79. 

For example, a land surface condensing plant, dealing with 50,000 lb. 
of exhaust steam per hour and maintaining a vacuum of 28 in. Hg with 
4880 gall, per minute of cooling water at 8o° F., would require an air pump 
having an air handling capacity of 28 lb. per hour (fig. 78), while a jet con¬ 
densing plant working under the same conditions would require an air 
pump having a capacity of (fig. 79) 

= 28 + (11-3 X 488o)/iooo lb. per hour 
= 28 + 55-4 
= 83*14 lb. per hour. 

These air quantities would be measured at a temperature of 85° F., the 
air being saturated with water vapour at that temperature. 


INVESTIGATION OF THE REQUIREMENTS OF AIR PUMPS 
FOR HIGH AND LOW VACUUM 

For the purpose of this investigation we shall take the high vacuum as 
28*5 in. Hg, and the low vacuum as 26 in. Hg. 

Let us take two condensers, one operating at 26 in. Hg vacuum and the 
other operating at 28*5 in. Hg vacuum, these vacua being recorded at the 
bottom of the condensers. In each case let there be a temperature depression 
of the condensate of io° F., i.e. the condensate temperature is io° F. lower 
than the vacuum temperature, due to the presence of air. In the low vacuum 
condenser then the condensate temperature will be 126° F. io° F. == 116 
F., and in the high vacuum condenser the condensate temperature will be, 
say, 92 0 F. — io° F. =*= 82 0 F. The partial air pressure in the low vacuum 
condenser will be 26*93 — 26 = 0*93 in. Hg, and in the high vacuum 



164 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


condenser the partial air pressure will be 28*9 — 28*5 = 0*4 in. Hg. These 
figures are shown for comparison in fig. 80. 

This means that, if an air pump be coupled to the low vacuum condenser, 
and at a certain speed it reduced the partial air pressure to 0*93 in. Hg, 
then if this same air pump be coupled to the high vacuum condenser the speed 
would have to be greatly increased to reduce the partial air pressure to 0*4 
in. Hg, and deal with the same air leakage. In other words, this means 



that for the same temperature depression the air pump coupled to a low 
vacuum condenser need not be so large as the air pump coupled to a high 
vacuum condenser. 

Now let the partial air pressure in the high vacuum condenser be increased 
till it is the same as in the low vacuum condenser, i.e. 0-93 in. Hg; the tem¬ 
perature depression in the high vacuum condenser becomes 92 — 63 = 29 0 
F., and the conditions will be as shown in fig. 81. 



The same air pump on these two condensers will, when running at 
speeds proportional to the absolute temperatures of the condensate and when 
dealing with the same air leakage, give a temperature depression in the 
low vacuum condenser of io° F., and in the high vacuum condensers, 29 0 F. 
The change in the speeds of the air pump is due to the reduced volume 
of the air in the high vacuum condenser, and the ratio in this case of a dis¬ 
placement pump is 

(459-6 + ii6)/( 4 59-6 + 63) 

= i-i to 1. 



AIR EJECTORS AND AIR PUMPS 165 

The temperature depression is a direct loss of heat, the heat passing away 
in the condenser circulating water. This loss must be made up by increased 
coal consumption in the boilers, and should be reduced to a minimum. A 
temperature depression of 29 0 F., as shown above, represents about 2*9 
per cent of the coal consumption. A simple displacement air pump there¬ 
fore which gives a loss of 1 per cent at 26 in. Hg vacuum would give a loss 
of 2-9 per cent at 28 \ in. Hg vacuum, and a larger loss at higher vacuum. 
The conclusion, therefore, is that, although the simple displacement air pump 
is quite well suited for and is the proper apparatus for low vacuum, the loss 
becomes excessive when it is applied to high vacuum. This fact led engineers 
to look around for alternative means of creating high vacuum, which resulted 
in the steam-jet augmentor being applied to displacement air pumps, steam- 
jet operated air ejectors, water-jet operated air ejectors, and in the Weir 
dual air pump. 


MARINE AIR PUMPS 

The present-day air pump used on board ship is generally of the dis¬ 
placement type. With the advent of the geared turbine, however, a call 
came for higher vacuum, because with this type of prime mover it was possible, 
owing to its reduced dimensions, to provide sufficient space for the larger 
low pressure blading necessary to take advantage of a higher vacuum. Even 
with geared turbines, however, a vacuum higher than 28*5 in. Hg is seldom 
called for, due primarily to considerations of the weight and space occupied 
by the larger low pressure turbine and condenser. The maximum vacuum 
for marine conditions may be taken therefore to be 28*5 in. Hg. To meet 
this condition requires a special air pump which, though still of the dis¬ 
placement type, has provisions made for the cooling and devaporizing of 
the air quite independent of the condensate temperature. This air cooling 
and devaporizing greatly reduces the air volume, and brings the air pump 
within reasonable dimensions. This may be clearly shown by the following 
example. 

Let us find the displacement (Case I ) necessary with an ordinary air 
pump of either the Edwards or the three-valve type to maintain a vacuum 
of 28*5 in. Hg with the barometer at 30 in. Hg, against an air leakage of 
30 lb. per hour, the temperature of the condensate being 8o° F. 

Let us thereafter (Case 2) find the necessary displacement when the 
air is cooled to 70° F. and compare the displacements. 

Case j.—T he partial pressure of the air entering the pump suction is 

28*97 - 28*5 
= 0*47 in. Hg. 

The volume occupied by 1 lb. of air at this pressure and 8o° F. is 

Vx = {12-39 X 30(459-6 + 8o)}/{°-47(459-6 + 32)} 

= 868 c. ft. per pound of air. 



STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


166 

The total volume to be dealt with per hour by the air pump is 

= 30 x 868 
== 26,040 c. ft. 

Case 2.—The partial pressure of the air entering the pump suction is 

= 29*26 — 28*5 
= 0*76 in. Hg. 

The volume occupied by 1 lb. of air at this pressure and 70° F. is 

V 2 = {12-39 X 30(459-6 + 7o)}/{o-76(459-6 + 32)} 

= 520 c. ft. per pound. 

The total volume to be dealt with by the air pump per hour is 

= 3° X 520 
= 15,600 c. ft. 

The ratio of the displacements is 

26040/15600 
— 1*669, 

i.e. the air pump without the air cooling must be 1*669 times larger than with 
the air cooling. 

The function of an air pump is to remove air and condensate from a 
steam condenser with the minimum expenditure of energy, the air being 
removed at as low a temperature as possible, and the condensate being 
removed at as high a temperature as possible, i.e. the vacuum temperature. 
This desideratum indicates that the air and water must be dealt with separately, 
the air being cooled either before it enters the air pump or inside the pump 
barrel, while the water enters the pump direct. 

A consideration of the above facts shows why the modern air pump of 
the reciprocating type and installed for high vacuum utilizes two barrels, 
one dealing with the condensate only, the other with the air and vapour 
only. These barrels are generally termed the wet and dry barrels respectively. 

The air pump installed on turbine-driven vessels is invariably of the 
independent type, i.e. it is not driven from the main turbine but is driven 
by its own steam cylinder, or, in some very modern ships, by its own electric 
motor. 

The reasons for the independent pump may be briefly stated as follows: 

The vacuum can be created in the main condenser before the turbine 
is started, thus preventing excessive heating and cooling of L.P. turbine 
and condenser, and so relieving them of heavy temperature stresses every 
time the turbine is started or stopped. 

Being independent of the main turbine the air pump can be run fast 
or slow, depending upon the load on the main turbine and upon the air 
leakage. ' 



AIR EJECTORS AND AIR PUMPS 


167 

For rapid and easy manoeuvring the independent air pump is indis¬ 
pensable, since a good vacuum must be maintained in the condenser for a 
turbine to give a rapid and certain response to the manoeuvring valve, this 
is of especial importance since the safety of the ship may depend on the 
speed of manoeuvring. 

The independent air pump may be taken to be indispensable to all classes 
of turbine-driven ships and to reciprocuting-engined ships with main engines 
of 5000 i.h.p. and over. 

The Weir independent dual air pump, which is largely used on board 
ship in conjunction with turbine machinery, is shown in figs. 82 and 83. 
This air pump embodies much of the foregoing desiderata in a convenient 
and compact and efficient manner. 



Fig. 82.—Weir Condenser System 

Diagrammatic Arrangement of Connections between Dual Air Pump and Condenser 


A is the wet barrel and B is the dry barrel. 

The wet barrel A is connected to the bottom of the condenser by the 
suction pipe C, all the condensate falls to the bottom of the condenser and 
flows by this pipe to the wet pump A. D is the dry air pump suction through 
which the dry barrel B draws the air, vapour, and non-condensable gases. 
Both barrels are normally of the three-valve type, i.e. with foot, bucket, and 
head valves. One novel feature of this pump is the method adopted for 
dealing with the discharge from the dry pump B. The pump B discharges 
through the discharge pipe E and thence through a spring-loaded valve F, the 
air and vapour entering the wet pump through a port which is situated just 
under the head valves of the wet pump. By this arrangement the load on 
the dry pump is greatly reduced, because the pressure against which the 
dry pump discharges is reduced from atmospheric pressure, if the pump 
had discharged to atmosphere, to 20 in. Hg vacuum. Both methods of 
cooling the air are shown in figs. 82 and 83, i.e. air cooling external to the 
pump and air cooling inside the pump barrel. The former method consists 






STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


168 


of fitting an air cooler integral with the main condenser as shown, and as pre¬ 
viously described; the latter method is by the use of a small injection cooler 
placed alongside the pump. This cooler is of tubular construction and 
employs two water circulation circuits, one inside the tubes and one outside 
the tubes. The one is a cold sea-water circulation taken from the main 


circulating pump, the other is a circulation 



of fresh water and is maintained 
by the working of the dry 
pump. For the freshwater 
circulation a pipe H is led 
from the dry pump discharge 
to the bottom cooler connec¬ 
tion; from the top cooler 
connection a pipe is led to 
the pump suction branch. 
The relatively hot water dis¬ 
charged by the dry pump 
flows down the pipe H, and 
passing through the cooler 
and inside the tubes becomes 
cooled by the cold sea-water 
circulating outside the tubes. 
This cooled water entering 
the dry suction branch meets 
the entering air and vapour 
and reduces their volume by 
condensing out a portion of 
the vapour and by lowering 
the temperature. This results 
in the temperature of the dry 
barrel running from io° F. to 
12° F. lower than the tem¬ 
perature of the wet barrel. 
To make up for loss of sealing 
water a small pipe G with 
valve is fitted between the wet 
and dry pump, so that any 
water which may be dis- 


Fig. 83.—Weir Independent Dual Air Pump 


charged over the discharge 
pipe E may be made up by 


the opening of the small make¬ 
up valve. This type of pump gives the air a two-stage compression: the 
first compression is given in the dry pump and is from the partial air 
pressure at the dry suction branch to 20 in. Hg vacuum the dry pump 
discharge pressure; the second compression is given in the wet pump and 
between the bucket and the head valves, the air being compressed and 
discharged to atmosphere on the up stroke of the wet pump. 




AIR EJECTORS AND AIR PUMPS 


169 


The Weir dual air pump when installed on board ship is generally steam 
driven. The steam cylinder is arranged above the wet pump, and the dry 
pump is driven by levers, the arrangement being as shown in fig. 83. 

This pump is very economical in steam, the consumption being approxi¬ 
mately 1 per cent of the total quantity of condensate being handled. The 
economy is primarily due to the disposition of the steam cylinder over the 
wet pump, coupled with the fact of the dry pump discharge pressure being 
20 in. Hg vacuum, and the 

arrangement of the throttle A 9 _L 

ports on the valve faces of l I 

the steam chest. On the A \\ 

up stroke of the wet pump n V 

the steam port opening is 

large, and the wet pump is — - I 1 —s a 

thus able to discharge its _ 0 ^ L TTT „ 

. 0 i-Mg. 84.—Indicator Card taken from the Wet Pump ot a 

contents against the pres- Weir Dual Air Pump 

sure of the atmosphere. 

On the down stroke of the wet pump there is little resistance from the 
pump, because the contents are simply transferred from one side of the 
bucket to the other through the bucket valves. Meantime, the dry pump is 
on the up stroke, and having only to discharge its contents against a vacuum 
of 20 in. Hg offers little resistance. On the down stroke of the piston, 
therefore, there is little resistance to be overcome, and on this stroke the 
steam supply to the cylinder is restricted by being throttled through a 
small port on the steam valve face. This results in the steam pressure 
acting on the top of the piston being greatly reduced, so that the quantity 
of steam in the cylinder ^ ^ 

at the end of the down - 


stroke is much less than 
the quantity at the end of 
the up stroke, the differ¬ 
ence being a direct sav¬ 
ing. The arrangement 
further provides a reason¬ 
ably uniform speed of up 
and down strokes. 


C—— b 



Fig. 85.—Indicator Card taken from the Dry Pump of a Weir 
Dual Air Pump 


Fig. 84 shows an indicator card taken from the wet pump of a Weir dual 
air pump and from above the bucket. 

Fig. 85 shows an indicator card taken from the dry pump of a Weir 
dual air pump and from above the bucket. 

Fig. 86 shows an indicator card taken from the steam cylinder. 

In fig. 84 taking the bucket at the bottom of its stroke the compression 
starts at a , and the compression line abc is very nearly isothermal, due to 
the compression taking place in the presence of water; from c to d discharge 
takes place under constant pressure. From d to e there is a rapid fall in 
pressure, owing to the water in the clearance space above the bucket leaving 



170 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


the head valves. When the pressure has fallen sufficiently to overcome the 
spring load of the dual valve, this valve opens and the contents of the dry 
pump are discharged into the wet pump along the line ea. 

In fig. 85 the air is compressed isothermally from a , and when the vacuum 
is reduced to a little over 20 in. Hg, the head valves open and discharge takes 
place from b to c , the return stroke then takes place and the pressure falls 
to d , the return stroke being completed from d to a. 

In fig. 86 the full line gives the card from above the piston, while the 
dotted line gives the card from the underside of the piston. In the full line 
card when the steam valve opens the pressure on the underside of the piston 
rises from h to a , and the piston starts ascending. From a to b the pressure 
remains sensibly constant, while from b to c the pressure rises to the steam 
supply pressure, owing to the piston being slowed down by the increasing 
load from the wet pump discharging; from c to d the pressure remains con¬ 
stant and the wet pump dis¬ 
charge is completed. The steam 
valve is shot at d y and the 
bottom of the cylinder is put 
into communication with the 
exhaust and the pressure falls 
to e ; the piston then starts its 
downward stroke and travels re¬ 
latively fast from e to /, where it 
again slows up owing to the dry 
pump discharging and the pressure falls to g and continues at the exhaust 
pressure to h y where the steam valve is again shot and the cycle is repeated. 

In the dotted card the steam pressure rises from j to e y and the piston 
starts to travel downwards to /, where, owing to the slowing up, the pressure 
rises to r and continues to m. At m the steam valve is shot and the top of 
the cylinder is put into communication with the exhaust and the pressure 
falls to n y the piston then starts ascending and ascends relatively fast to 0, 
where it slows up and the pressure falls to p y the exhaust pressure, and con¬ 
tinues at exhaust pressure to j y where the steam valve again shoots and the 
cycle is repeated. 

Table V, p. 171, gives particulars from the test sheet of a Weir dual 
air pump, which were taken in conjunction with the foregoing indicator 
cards; this table indicates the performance of these pumps. 

From these figures the effect of the cooler is clearly shown. This 
pump will handle 33*3% more air and maintain the same vacuum than 
will a normal displacement air pump of the same dimensions and running 
at the same speed. 

From equation (32) the vapour condensed out works out to be 13*44 lb. 
per hour; the temperature rise in the cooling water flowing through the 
cooler is 4 0 F., therefore to absorb the heat given out by the above quan¬ 
tity of vapour condensing at 1000 B.Th.U. per pound, the quantity of cooling 
water, flowing through the cooler must have been 5*6 gall, per minute. 


d_c 



Fig. 86.—Indicator Card from the Steam Cylinder 
Weir Dual Air Pump 







AIR EJECTORS AND AIR PUMPS 171 


Table V 


Load in pounds of water per hour 

Barometer, in. Hg 

Vacuum recorded, in. Hg 

Vacuum correct to 30 in. Hg barometer 

Vacuum at dry pump discharge, in. Hg 

Sea temperature, degrees F. 

Wet pump discharge temperature, degrees F. .. 

280,000 

30 

28-65 

28-65 

20 

61 

90 

1 37.500 

30 

27-8 

27-8 

20 

61 

90 

Dry pump discharge temperature, degrees F. .. 

73 

72 

Sealing water tempera-) Inlet to cooler 

73 

72 

ture, degrees F. /Outlet from cooler .. 

69 

68 

Circulating water tern-\ Inlet to cooler 

61 

61 

perature, degrees F. J Outlet to cooler 

63 

63 

Speed of pump (strokes per minute) .. 

54 

54 

Steam supply pressure, pounds per square inch 

125 

no 

Air leakage in pounds per hour.. 

0 

34 


DISPLACEMENT AIR PUMPS WITH STEAM JET 
AUGMENTERS 

The first really practical vacuum augmenter to be put on the market was 
that introduced by the Hon. C. A. Parsons. This device is shown in fig. 87. 



Two suctions are fitted to the main condenser, one dealing with the 
condensate and the other dealing with the air and vapour. The augmenter 
is fitted to the latter suction, and is simply the first stage of a two-stage air 

















172 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


ejector. The augmenter discharges to a small augmenter condenser where 
the steam used by the augmenter is condensed. The vacuum carried in the 
augmenter condenser varies with the air being handled, but normally runs 
from 26 to 27 in. with 28*5 in. Hg vacuum in the main condenser. The 
air and vapour receive their first compression in the augmenter, so that the 
air pump is only called upon to deal with these at the low vacuum of 26 
to 27 in. Hg. This greatly increases the air-handling capacity of the air pump, 
and consequently, when an augmenter is fitted to an air pump, the size of 
the pump installed can be made much smaller than if no augmenter be 
fitted. 

The wet suction pipe is looped, as shown, to provide a water seal and 
ensure that the air and non-condensable gases which have already been 
compressed by the augmenter do not flow black along the wet suction pipe 
to the condenser, thus creating an internal circulation which destroys the 
efficiency and operation of the apparatus. Owing to the higher vacuum 
carried in the main condenser, the condensate will stand in the wet 
suction pipe at a higher level than that in the air pump suction chamber. 
The difference in levels will be directly proportional to the difference of 
vacuum in the main condenser and in the air pump suction chamber. If 
the vacuum in the main condenser is 28*5 in. Hg, and the vacuum in the 
pump suction chamber is 26 in. Hg, then the difference in the w-ater levels 
will be 

1(28*5 — 26)341/30 ft. of water ~ 2*92 ft. 

It is very important that sufficient head be provided from the bottom of 
the main condenser to the water level in the pump suction chamber to 
ensure that the high level is not up inside the main condenser and the aug¬ 
menter suction branch drowned. Sufficient head is sometimes very difficult 
to arrange on board ship, especially with the modern underhung condensers, 
and the writer knows of cases w r here the vacuum augmenter gives no increase 
in vacuum due solely to the above cause. The steam used by the jet is 
additional to that used by the air pump. Turbine machinery is, however, 
very sensitive to vacuum, and the gain of \ in. so reduces the steam 
consumption of the main turbines, that there is a net saving. It should 
be clearly borne in mind, however, that for a turbine to benefit by a higher 
vacuum it should be designed for the higher vacuum; no great reduction 
in steam consumption need be anticipated by running a turbine with a vacuum 
higher than that for which it was designed. This was clearly demonstrated 
some years ago, when at the instigation of Mr. William (now Lord) Weir, 
the British Admiralty conducted some trials on torpedo-boat destroyers at 
reduced vacua. The results of these trials showed that in every case when 
the vacuum was reduced to the designed vacuum the overall economy rose. 

The following gives Baumann’s published figures for the decrease in 
steam consumption for various increases in vacua: 

4 per cent decreased consumption per 1 in. Hg vacuum between 26 and 
27 in. Hg. 



AIR EJECTORS AND AIR PUMPS 173 

5 per cent decreased consumption per 1 in. Hg vacuum between 27 
and 28 in. Hg. 

6 per cent decreased consumption per 1 in. Hg vacuum between 28 and 
29 in. Hg. 

Messrs. G. & J. Weir, Ltd., have put on the market for marine purposes 
a new design of air pump with steam jet augmenter, and called by them 
The Paragon Air Pump . This pump is shown in fig. 88, and is of the twin- 
barrel type, driven by a single steam cylinder. 

Both barrels deal with the water, i.e. the suctions are common and each 
barrel draws its quota of condensate through the same suction pipe. The 



Fig. 88.—Weir Paragon Air Pump 


pumps are of the three-valve type with a normal design, with foot, suction, and 
head valves. On the side of each barrel, and high up on the barrel, is arranged 
a port A, so positioned that when the bucket is at the top of its stroke the 
port is in communication with the space under the bucket, and when the 
bucket has travelled on its down stroke, a distance equal to its own depth 
plus the depth of the port, the port is in communication with the space above 
the bucket. Communicating with this port A is a chamber B which houses 
a non-return plate valve C of a design similar to the pump valves. A branch 
pipe D connects the tw T o chambers B with the augmenter condenser outlet, 
the augmenter condenser E is of the tubular type and fitted with condenser 
tubes ferruled into brass tubeplates to provide for expansion. The augmenter 
F is fitted to the top of the augmenter condenser and discharges directly into 
the same. The steam discharged by the augmenter is condensed on the 
outside of the tubes by the condensate discharged by the air pump. The 
heat in the augmenter discharge is therefore conserved in the condensate, 
which results in the economy of the apparatus being good. The steam 





174 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


nozzles are of the convergent-divergent type, and arranged as a group of 
small nozzles having a throat diameter of 3/32 in. A steam strainer is 
provided to prevent choking of the steam nozzles. The whole apparatus 
is compact and self-contained, and is thus easily installed on board a ship. 
Fig. 89 shows the characteristic performance of this pump, having barrels 
19 in. diameter X 15 in. stroke, and the augmenter using 280 lb. of steam 
per hour. The curve A gives the vacuum curve for the pump alone, and 
the curve B gives the vacuum curve when the augmenter is turned on. 

It should be noted that within the range of air leakage shown the increase 
in vacuum given by the augmenter increases with the air leakage. The 



Fig. 89.—Vacuum Curves of Paragon Air Pump 


curves A and B are plotted from figures taken with a condensate temperature 
of 8o° F. Two other curves C and D are plotted from figures taken with a 
condensate temperature of 50° F. The maximum vacuum obtained on curve 
C at zero leakage is 29 in. Hg, while the turning on of the augmenter raised 
the vacuum to 29*63 in. Hg. The vacuum of 29 in. Hg obtained with the 
air pumps only working, gives the stalling point of the pump, i.e. the point 
at which a decrease in condensate temperature gives no increase in vacuum, 
and the difference between this vacuum and the vacuum of 29*63 in. Hg 
obtained when the augmenter was turned on represents the loss of vacuum 
due to the friction through the pump foot valves and grids, the weight of 





























AIR EJECTORS AND AIR PUMPS 175 

the valves and the negative head caused by the water having to be drawn up 
into the pump barrel on the up stroke of the pump. 

RADOJET VACUUM AUGMENTER 

The arrangement adopted by Messrs. J. Musgrave & Co., Bolton, for their 
radojet vacuum augmenter is shown in fig. 90. 

The augmenter is generally on the lines of their straight radojets, as illus¬ 
trated and described on pp. 146 to 151. Only the second stage, however, is 
employed as an augmenter, and it is designed for operating with low pressure 
exhaust steam at 2 to 5 lb. per square inch gauge. As shown in fig. 90 



yvatcp seal twim beam aic pvmb 

Fig. 90.—Musgrave Radojet Condenser 


the augmenter draws the air and non-condensable gases by a separate 
suction from the main condenser, and discharges them at an increased pres¬ 
sure to the tubular augmenter condenser, where the steam used by the 
augmenter is condensed, and the air and non-condensable gases pass to the 
water seal chamber arranged underneath the augmenter condenser. The 
function of the water seal is precisely the same as that described for Parsons 
augmenter. The air and non-condensable gases then pass at the reduced 
vacuum to the twin beam air pump, and are dealt with in the usual fashion. 
Live steam is supplied to the pump only, a branch being taken off the pump 
exhaust to supply the augmenter. 

The following table gives the performance of a Radojet augmenter fitted 






176 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


to the twin beam air pump on a foreign torpedo-boat destroyer running 
under full power. 



Vacuum in 
Condenser. 

Steam Supply 
Pressure. 

Sea Temperature. 

Radojet augmenter in use 

Air pump alone 

27-9 in. Hg [ 
26*12 in. Hg 

4*3 lb./square 
inch gauge 

} 69° F. 

69° F. 


The steam used by the augmenter was 0*26 per cent of the steam con¬ 
sumption of the main turbine, and the increased vacuum obtained resulted 
in a decrease in the steam consumption of the main turbine of 9-22 per cent. 

KINETIC AIR PUMP (ROTARY SYSTEM) 

The method employed for the removal of air with this type of apparatus 
consists of a steam jet air ejector working in series with a water-jet operated 
ejector. The steam jet air ejector forms the first stage and the water-jet 
operated ejector the second stage. The supply water for the water-jet operated 
ejector is supplied by an ordinary low-lift centrifugal pump. The water-jet 
operated ejector discharges to a tank from which the centrifugal pump draws, 
the same water being used over and over again. 

Fig. 91 shows one arrangement of the system as applied to a land surface 
condensing plant. The steam jet ejector A draws the air and vapour via the 
suction pipe B and discharges to the auxiliary surface condenser C. The 
water extraction or condensate pump D withdraws the condensate from the 
condenser E and delivers through the auxiliary condenser C, thus condensing 
the steam discharged by the steam jet ejector A, and absorbing in the con¬ 
densate the heat in the ejector discharge. The air and uncondensed vapour 
flow through the non-return valve F, and enter the suction chamber of the 
water-jet operated ejector G. The operating water for this ejector is delivered 
by the “ kinetic ” pump H through a strainer J to the water nozzles K and 
L. The water nozzle K is a central solid nozzle, while the water nozzle L is 
an annular one. The combined discharge from the nozzles K and L, together 
with the entrained air and vapour, is delivered through a divergent diffuser 
tube M, where the kinetic energy of the rapidly moving jets is converted into 
pressure energy, so that the combined mass can discharge against atmospheric 
pressure. The diffuser tube M is situated centrally in the tank N, and from 
this tank the kinetic pump H draws. Owing to the energy losses involved, 
and to the heat in the outlet from the auxiliary condenser C, the water circu¬ 
lating round the kinetic pump and water-jet operated ejector gradually 
heats up. This would be reflected in impaired vacuum, and to provide 
against this a valve O, float ball P, float-operated valve R, and circulating pipe 
S are provided. When the valve 0 is opened the condensate passes to the 
suction of the kinetic pump H, and is discharged to the water-jet operated 




AIR EJECTORS AND AIR PUMPS 


177 


ejector G, which in turn discharges it to the tank N. The water level therefore 
rises and raises the float ball P, thus opening the valve R, and water is drawn 
up the pipe S and into the top of the main condenser; this water falls down 



among the cold tubes and is therefore cooled. A circulation round the tank 
and main condenser, therefore, is set up, and is regulated by the valve O and 
the temperature of the water entering the ejector is thereby controlled. 

MARINE TYPE KINETIC AIR PUMP 

As applied to ship work, the kinetic air pump is a combination of a 
reciprocating displacement pump with a steam jet augmenter. The air 
compression is accomplished in two stages, the steam jet taking the first stage 
and the displacement pump the second stage. Fig. 92 shows the arrangement 
in diagrammatic form. 

The pump is of the twin-barrel type, the barrel A dealing with condensate 
only and drawing direct from the condenser, and the barrel B dealing with air 
and vapour. The augmenter J is connected by the branch C to the air-suction 
branch on the condenser, and discharges to the receiver D which is simply 
a small jet condenser. The steam discharged by the augmenter is condensed 
by condensate taken from the discharge of the wet pump A by the pipe E. 
The condensate is sprayed into the receiver D and condenses the steam by 

( D 450) 12 



! 7 8 STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 

direct contact. The receiver is drained to the dry pump B by the pipe F, 
and enters the dry pump barrel through a non-return valve and port under 
the head valves. The augmenter J gives a compression to the air of 4 to 5 in. 
of mercury, depending on the air being handled, so that with 28-5 in. Hg 
vacuum in the main condenser the vacuum carried in the receiver would 
be about 24-5 in. Hg. This greatly reduces the volume of the gases to be 



Fig. 92.—Arrangement of Marine Type of Kinetic Air Pump 


dealt with by the dry barrel, and its capacity is therefore greatly increased. 
The dry barrel B draws the air and vapour from the receiver D by the pipe G. 

Since the steam discharged by the augmenter is condensed by condensate 
which returns to the pump discharge, the heat used by the augmenter is 
absorbed by the feed water. The pump is driven by the steam cylinder H, 
the wet pump being directly driven by the piston rod and the dry pump being 
driven by the levers K from the wet pump crosshead. 

EDWARDS AIR PUMP 

Although the Edwards air pump is practically out of date for land power 
stations, no work such as the present would be complete without some sort 
of reference to it. 

The main feature of the Edwards air pump is the mechanical injection 
of the condensate into the barrel and above the bucket, when the latter is 
at the bottom of its stroke, by the conical-shaped underside of the bucket. 
The action is illustrated in fig. 93. 

When the bucket is performing about three-quarters of its upward and 
downward strokes, reckoned from top, the condensate flowing in by the 
suction branch B collects in the conical bottom of the pump chamber. The 
bucket descends on this water, and, because of the conical bottom given to 



AIR EJECTORS AND AIR PUMPS 


179 


the bucket, it enters the water without 
shock and projects the latter round the 
curved portion C, which diverts the water 
through the ports D and into the barrel 
above the bucket. The leaving edge of 
the curved portion C is set at such an 
angle that the projected water passes 
through the port, so that a clear opening 
is left for the admission of air, as shown 
by the arrow, the rapidly moving projected 
water assisting the air to flow into the 
barrel. Normal head valves are fitted, 
and the descending bucket creates a vacuum 
in the barrel higher than that in the pump 
suction pipe. When the bucket has de¬ 
scended and uncovered the ports D, the 
barrel E is put into communication with 
the pump suction B and air is drawn into 
the barrel, the farther descent of the bucket 
causing the water to be projected into the Fig. 93—Edwards Air Pump 

barrel, and assisting in the entrance of the 

air. Owing to the top of the bucket being flat the working clearance 
between the bucket and head valves can be reduced to a minimum, so that 


nnmiq 



Fig. 94.—Two-throw Electrically Driven Edwards Air Pumps 



the minimum quantity of air remains in the clearance space. This air, 
which is really in the nature of absorbed air, is released on the downward 


i8o 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


stroke of the bucket, owing to the reduction in absolute pressure. The 
air expands and exerts its own pressure at the end of the stroke, and con¬ 
sequently the vacuum in the barrel at the point of port opening is less 
than it would be were the clearance volume zero. The aim, therefore, is 
to reduce the clearance to a minimum, which can be readily done with this 
type of pump. 

The Edwards air pump as installed on land is generally arranged with 
two or three barrels, all driven from a common crank-shaft. Fig. 94 shows 
a two-throw, pump motor driven through gearing as manufactured by Messrs. 
The Mirrlees Watson Company. 

The air pump rating as recommended by the Edwards Air Pump Syndi¬ 
cate is as follows: 


Vacuum, 
in. Hg. 

Air Pump Displace¬ 
ment per Pound of 
Steam Condensed. 

25 

0-5 c. ft. 

26 

o-6 „ 

27 

o -75 » 

28 

0-9 „ 


The Edwards air pump can be driven at speeds up to about 200 r.p.m., 
150 r.p.m. being a common speed. 




CHAPTER VII 


Water-Extraction Pumps 

MIRRLEES EXTRACTION PUMP 

When a surface condenser is fitted with an air ejector of the kinetic type 
the modern method of removing the condensate is by means of a centrifugal 
pump of special design, and known as a water-extraction pump or as a con¬ 
densate pump. During the initial stages in the development of water-extrac¬ 
tion pumps various difficulties and troubles arose, chief among these being 
the quiet and sudden failure of the pump to extract the water. The pump 
would run quite successfully and efficiently for a period, then it would 
suddenly and quietly fail and the condenser would begin to fill up; this 
resulted in a drop in vacuum owing to the rising water blanking off the 
ejector suction branch. The water was then drawn up into the ejector, which 
caused trouble. 

This difficulty arose through air leakage at the pump glands; to get 
cool running at these glands the gland nuts had to be finger-tight, which 
resulted in air being drawn in, while, if the nuts were screwed up so 
as to prevent leakage, the shaft was scored or grooved and generally heated, 
and once this occurred it was very difficult to prevent leakage. 

This air which leaked in entered the eye of the impeller and, since the 
air could not be discharged by the impeller owing to the difference in the 
density of air and water, the pump became virtually air-locked and its capa¬ 
city consequently was reduced; the condenser therefore quietly filled up or 
flooded. 

When it is appreciated that the air which leaks in immediately expands 
under the influence of the vacuum to about 1000 times its original volume, 
it may be realized that the minutest leakage is sufficient to cause this trouble. 

Fig. 95 shows a section through the latest design of Messrs. The Mirrlees 
Watson Company for a horizontal water-extraction pump. 

The pump is of the single-stage type, and twin impellers are employed 
working in parallel. The impellers are placed with the inlets facing each 
other, and have no balancing holes at the eyes. The impellers are shown 
at D, and are housed in a casing E, which is split horizontally to facilitate 
overhaul. Volutes B are arranged round the periphery of each impeller, 
and are suitably connected to a single discharge branch C. The conden¬ 
sate enters the common suction chamber A between the impellers, and 

181 



182 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


each impeller deals with one-half the total condensate. Large clearances 
are arranged between the impellers and the casing, so that the discharge 
pressure is carried right to the stuffing glands, thus putting these under pres¬ 
sure. Any leakage, therefore, taking place at these glands is a leakage out¬ 
wards of water and not a leakage inwards of air, and incidentally, no grease 
for the gland packing can contaminate the condensate. 

A further feature of the design is the complete axial balance of the 
impellers, the end thrust of the one impeller being equal and opposite to 
the end thrust of the other impeller; this is due to the symmetrical arrange¬ 



ment of the impellers. The pump shaft is fitted with renewable gun-metal 
sleeves where the shaft passes through the stuffing boxes. These sleeves 
perform the double function of protecting the shaft and acting as distance 
pieces between the impellers and the double lock nuts which are provided, 
so that the impellers can be positioned centrally, in the pump casing. 
These pumps run normally at about 1500 r.p.m. for discharge heads from 
5 to 50 ft. For higher heads or for lower speeds the impellers are arranged 
in series. 

WEIR EXTRACTION PUMP 

The water-extraction pump designed and manufactured by Messrs. 
G. & J. Weir, Ltd., is shown in fig. 96. 

This pump is arranged with its shaft vertical, and employs twin impellers 
with a central suction. It is driven by a small steam turbine of the velocity- 
stage type, having three rows of moving blades mounted on a single wheel, 
and two rows of stationary blades mounted in a guide segment. A speed 
governor is fitted to maintain the speed constant under variations of load, 





WATER-EXTRACTION PUMPS 183 


and in addition a safety governor is fitted which shuts off the steam com¬ 
pletely in the event of the pump overspeeding. 

The twin impellers are shown at A, and B is the central suction chamber. 
The water delivered by the impellers is discharged through the diverging 
whirlpool chambers C to the discharge casing D on which the discharge 
branch is cast. No stuffing gland is employed at the lower impeller, and a 
large clearance is arranged between the top impeller and the cover, so that 
the full discharge pressure reaches the stuffing box E, thus preventing air 
leakage. 

The weight of the impellers, turbine wheel shaft, &c., is carried on a 



Fig. 96.—Weir Extraction Pump, Turbine Driven 


ball thrust bearing F, and the shaft is centred by two ball journal bearings 
G and H. Both thrust and journal balls run in an oil bath formed by internal 
sleeves J and K, and a continuous oil circulation is maintained through the 
oil boxes L and M by the centrifugal action of the oil being rotated by the 
rotating balls and races. A normal design of carbon gland packing is employed 
for the turbine casing, and auxiliary nozzles under the control of auxiliary 
stop valves are provided, so that by regulating these auxiliary nozzles the 
pump may deal economically with large variations in load. The speed governor 
N is arranged at the top of the shaft and is of the centrifugal type; the varia¬ 
tion in speed is 5 per cent from full load to the pump running empty. The 
overspeed governor is arranged directly beneath the speed governor and 
consists of an unbalanced ring held centrally by a spring, the whole rotating 







184 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


with the shaft. At a predetermined speed the centrifugal force of the un¬ 
balanced ring overcomes the spring force and the ring flies out to its extreme 
range; the rotating ring then strikes a lever which disengages a trigger and 
allows a powerful spring attached to the stop valve to shut it, thus shutting 
off the steam to the pump. 

The pump end is made of gun-metal, while the framing is of cast iron. 
The framing and pump end are divided down the centre line so that the 
shaft with impellers and turbine wheel can be removed for overhaul with¬ 
out disturbing any of the connections. 



The vertical design of the pump permits of the water end being placed 
at the lowest point. This is very important on board ship where the modern 
underhung condenser leaves little available head between the bottom of 
the condenser and the tank top. 

Fig. 97 show 7 s characteristic suction head quantity curves for these 
pumps. 

DRYSDALE MOTOR-DRIVEN WATER-EXTRACTION 

PUMP 

The latest design of water-extraction pump put on the market by Messrs. 
Drysdale & Co., Yoker, Glasgow, is shown in fig. 98. The pump is 
known as the “ Pervac ” patent pump, and the aim of the design is to satisfy 
the following fundamental conditions. 

1. That air coming in through the suction pipe should be got rid of as 
promptly as possible. 












WATER-EXTRACTION PUMPS 


185 


2. That air leakage through joints, glands, &c., should be impossible. 

3. That the suction branch should be as low as possible. 

4. That the operation of the pump should be stable under all conditions 
of load from minimum to maximum. 

5. That the efficiency should be as high as possible. 

6. That the alignment of the pump and motor should not be disturbed 
by the expansion and contraction of the connecting pipes. 

The pump is of the two-stage 
vertical type with the driving motor 
mounted on the top on an exten¬ 
sion of the main casting. By plac¬ 
ing the pump vertical the suction 
branch can be placed low down. 

The pump casing is divided on the 
vertical plane and the suction and 
discharge branches are arranged on 
the back, thus permitting the pump 
to be dismantled without the break¬ 
ing of pipe joints. The pump 
casing is of close-grained cast iron, 
while the impellers and packings 
are of gun-metal. The shaft is of 
nickel steel, and the coupling be¬ 
tween the pump and motor is of 
the rigid pattern, fitted with ad¬ 
justable plate. The internal bear¬ 
ings are of hard bronze of suitable 
composition to run with water 
lubrication only, while the external 
bearings are of the grease lubri¬ 
cated type, the arrangement being 
such that no grease can find its 
way into the condensate. The 
thrust bearing is incorporated in 
the top end shield of the motor. 

Fig. 99 gives the pump charac¬ 
teristics for a constant speed. The 

. . Fig. 98.—Drysdaie “ Pervac ” Condensate Extraction 

actual quantity pressure curve is Pump 

the line ABC. The drop in pres¬ 
sure from B to A is due to the friction head on the discharge side of 
the pump falling as the quantity is reduced. The dotted portion of the 
pressure curve BD does not actually exist, because the pump does not 
follow its head quantity curve, but fails in its theoretical performance 
owing to cavitation. The point B is the point of maximum output for the 
conditions. The horizontal line AE is the static discharge pressure on 




i86 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 



Fig. 99.—Characteristics for Drysdale Pump 


the pump, and the curve FG shows the vacuum against which the pump 
can draw. 


THEORY OF WATER-EXTRACTION PUMPS 

Let V be the vacuum in the condenser in inches Hg; 

h s , the head of water in suction pipe over the centre of the impeller; 
h , the total change in pressure on the water; 

H, the discharge head in feet at pump discharge; 

D, the outside diameter of the impeller in feet; 
d , the inside diameter of the impeller in feet; 

N, the revolutions per minute; 

v Qy the peripheral velocity of the outside of the impeller in feet per 
second. 

v iy the peripheral velocity of the inside of the impeller vanes in feet 
per second; 

v ri , the radial velocity in feet per second at the entrance edges of the 
vanes; 

v r0 , the radial velocity in feet per second at the leaving edges of the vanes; 
0 O , the vane angle at the leaving edge; 

0 iy the vane angle at the entrance edge; 

V„, the relative velocity of water over vane at entrance; 

V r0 , the relative velocity of water over vane at exit; 
v h the actual velocity of water at exit; and 
-v m the velocity of whirl at exit. 








































WATER-EXTRACTION PUMPS 


187 


The radial velocity v ri is 

V ri = V 2 gh s . 

At the entrance edge we have the following velocity diagram (fig. 100). 
Then V n = v ri cos 0 { 

= J V? + v ri 2 , 
and Vi = v ri cot 6 { 

= cot 0i\/ 2 gh v 



Fig. 100.—Velocity Diagram 


Similarly at the exit edge we have the following velocity diagram 
(fig. 101). 

Then v r0 = (v 0 — v w ) tan6» 0 ,.(74) 

and V r0 = v r0 cosec 9 0 


= (^o — v w ) tan0 o cosec0 o 



Fig. 101 


If the impellers have a constant flow area, that is, if the area at entrance 
equals the area at exit then V rt - equals V r0 , and we get 

v ri cosec Oi = (v 0 — v w ) sec0 o . 


The motion of a particle of water at any point in its passage through the 
impeller may be compounded into a velocity of whirl and one of flow parallel 
to the vanes. The'change in pressure through the impeller will therefore be 





188 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


the sum of the changes due to the rotation of the water in a forced vortex 
and the flow parallel to the vanes. 

For the forced vortex by considering only the entrance and exit edge of 
the vanes, and letting 

H,- be the head at inlet due to forced vortex; 

H 0 , the head at outlet due to forced vortex; 

w, the angular velocity of the wheel in radians per second; 

r { , the radius at inlet edges of vanes in feet; and 

r 0 , the radius at outlet edges of vanes in feet; 


we have 


H t — w 2 — r t 2 = (H 0 - «V)/(2*), 
or H 0 — H, = OV - zvb?)l(2g). 

H 0 — H, is the change in head through the wheel due to the forced vortex; 
.*. change in head = (zr 2 r 0 2 — w 2 r i 2 )/(2g) 

= W-V^)l(2g). 

For the change in velocity of flow through the wheel we have, by Ber¬ 
noulli’s theorem, 

change of head = (V rt - 2 — V r0 2 )/(2£). 

NOW V„* = 
and Y r0 = v r0 cosec0 o . 

change in head = ( v,- 2 + v ri 2 — v r0 2 cosec 2 9 0 )/(2g). 

The total change of head through the impeller will be the sum of these 
changes, or 

total change of head = ( v 0 2 — v? + v? + v ri 2 — v r0 2 cosec 2 9 0 )/(2g) 

= W + Vri ~ z 'r0 2 COSeC 2 6 0 )l(2g) .(76) 

If there be no change in the velocity of flow through the impeller, i.e. 
if V ri - = V r0 , then there is no change in head owing to change in the velocity 
of flow, and the whole gain in head is that due to the forced vortex motion. 
If V„ is less than V r0 , which is generally the case, then the change in head 
due to change of flow is negative. 

If there be no volute nor whirlpool chamber fitted to the pump, equation 
(76) will be the total gain in head, and the leaving velocity v L will be entirely 
lost. 

The total head to be overcome is made up of the discharge head at the 
pump discharge, the head over the impeller on the suction side and the 
head equivalent to the vacuum in the condenser, and the velocity head at 
the pump discharge. 




WATER-EXTRACTION PUMPS 


189 


The head equivalent to the vacuum V is (34V)/30, and the total change 
in head is H -h, + ( 34 V)/ 3 o + (v/)/(2g), 

where v d is the discharge velocity. 

H — h s + (34V)/30 + (v d -)/(2g) = (v 0 2 + v ri 2 — v r0 2 cosec 2 # 0 ) /(2g). .(77) 

Like the ordinary centrifugal pump water-extraction pumps are usually 
fitted with a volute and a bell-mouthed discharge, or a volute and a whirlpool 
chamber. When a volute or whirlpool chamber is fitted to the pump, 
equation (77) has to be modified as follows. 

If v v be velocity of whirl in the volute casing, and assuming the radial 
velocity v r0 of the water leaving the impeller to be entirely dissipated in 



shock, then we have the water leaving the impeller with a velocity v h which 
velocity is changed to v v in the volute casing. 

Referring to fig. 102 the change of velocity is therefore v f . 

If the change be abrupt the loss of head is 

Vfl(2g) = {(»■ — VvY + <Vo 2 }/(2£) 

= (Vu? ~ 2 V„ + V 2 + V r 0 2 )l( 2 g) 

= W - 2 V« + V 2 )l(zg). 

If the change be gradual, then by Bernoulli’s theorem the gain in head 
owing to the decreased velocity will be 

W - <V)/(2£). 

The net gain in head will lie between the whole gain, due to the 
decreased velocity and the whole loss due to shock, and will be the difference 
between these two or 

the net gain in head = (c/ 2 — v 2 — v 2 2v a v v — v v 2 )/(2g), 
i.e. U g = 2{v w v v — v 2 )j{2g). 

The maximum possible gain may be found by differentiating this expres¬ 
sion with respect to v v and equating to zero, or 

(<m g )l(dv v ) = (v w - 2v v )/g. 



STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


190 

Equating to zero we get v w — 2v v — o, 

or v v = ( v„)lz . 

That is the maximum gain in head, when the velocity of whirl in the 
volute is one-half the velocity of whirl of the water leaving the impeller. 

Substituting this value of v v in the equation for we get the maximum 
gain to be 

H* = - (X,) 2 }]/'(2£) 

= {zihvj - hvj)\/{2g) 

= . (78) 

That is, only one-half the available energy is gained, or the efficiency of 
the volute cannot be greater than 50 per cent. Actually the efficiency is 
very much below this, being generally about 10 to 15 per cent. 

Adding this gain to equation (77) we get, for a pump fitted with a volute, 

H - h s + 34V/30 + vf/(2g) = {v 2 + v ri 2 - v T 2 cosec 2 0 o + X, 2 )/(2£)- -( 79 ) 

If a bell mouth be fitted to the discharge, the velocity v v may be reduced 
and the discharge head increased correspondingly. 

If v p be the velocity in the discharge pipe, we have the gain of head 

H* = (v v *-v p *)l(2g). 

If a whirlpool chamber be fitted round the impeller, it is usual to assume 
the motion through the chamber to be that of a free vortex. 

Let be the inner radius of the vortex; 
r 2 , the outer radius of the vortex; 
v mi the velocity at the outer radius; and 
v h the velocity at the inner radius. 

Now for free vortex motion the gain in head will be 

= (v? - V m 2 )l(2g), 
also Vi\v m = r 2 /r x — say n. 

H „ = {v?-(v 2 ln 2 ))l( 2g) 

= - l/« 2 )}/(2£). 

Again v? = vj + v r0 2 , 

H vg = 1 (® 2 » + V)(i - I In 2 ) }l(2g). 

Then adding this gain to equation (77) we get the head across the pump 
for a pump with a whirlpool chamber only to be 

H-4+34 v /3°+V/(2£) 

= {v 0 2j i- v ri 2 -v r0 2 cosec 2 d 0 +(v a 2 +v r0 2 )(i + i/n 2 )} l(2g).. .(86) 

The actual gain in head given by a whirlpool chamber rarely exceeds 
5 per cent of the total head, due to the modified form in which it is generally 




WATER-EXTRACTION PUMPS 


191 

adopted. To get a large gain in head n must be large so that the dimensions 
become excessive; there is also the fact that in radial flow or divergent 
motion there is always the tendency to instability, which results in eddy losses 
which greatly reduce the efficiency. For this reason whirlpool chambers 
are sometimes made narrower at the outer diameter than at the inner dia¬ 
meter to reduce the deceleration of the water. 

QUANTITY DISCHARGED BY PUMP 

Let A be the peripheral area of the impeller at discharge in square feet, 
neglecting the thickness of the vanes this will equal 2~r 0 b 0 , where 
b 0 is the breadth; 

Q, the quantity discharged in cubic feet per second. 

The total gain in head is 

H — K + 34 v / 3 ° + v/Kzg) ft. 

The total rise of pressure on the water is 

H — h s + 34V/30 ft. = h . 

Then equation (77) becomes 

h 4 - v//(2g) == (v 0 2 + v„ i 2 - v r0 2 cosec 2 0 o )/(2£), 
or (2 gh — v d 2 — v 0 2 — v ri 2 )/cosec% = — v r0 2 . 

If v ri (the radial velocity at inlet) is equal to v d the discharge velocity, 
the above expression becomes 

v r0 = sm8 0 s/ v 0 2 — 2gh, 
now Q = Az; r0 

= A sin 8 0 \/v 0 2 — 2gh ...(81) 

HYDRAULIC EFFICIENCY OF PUMP 
The hydraulic efficiency is the ratio 

total gain in pressure head across the pump 
head equivalent of the work done on pump spindle* 

The total gain in pressure head across the pump is the discharge head 
H minus the suction head h s plus the head equivalent to the vacuum 34V/30 
or H — h s + 30V/30. 

The head equivalent of the energy expended on the pump spindle may 
be found thus: 

The change in angular momentum in foot-pounds per pound of water 
passing through the impeller 

= K - v m )lg, 




192 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


where v wi is the velocity of whirl at the inlet edges of the vanes. 

The change in the moment of this momentum will be 

= (Vo — v ui r i)/g- 

This change in the moment of the momentum is derived from the twist¬ 
ing moment T applied at the pump spindle. 

T = (v a r 0 — v wi r,)/g. 


Since the impeller is running at a speed of to radians per second, the work 

done per second ( , x > , 

= {(Vo -V wi r t )a)';lg. 


Since this is the work done per second per pound of water, it is also 
equal to the head equivalent of the work done on the pump spindle. 
Then, substituting these values, the hydraulic efficiency 77 is 

V = g(H — h s + 34 v / 3 °)/U*Vo — v Ki r,)cu}. 


So far as the efficiency rj is concerned the velocity of whirl v Ki must equal 
zero, since any whirl given to the water must have come from the impeller. 
Then, putting v wi — o, the expression reduces to 

V = -;^(H - A s + 34V/30 )} /(v w r 0 w). 

Now v 0 = r 0 o), 

V = - h s + 34V/30) !• /©«,©„)» 

or, since v w = v 0 — v r0 cotff 0 , 

V = {^(H -h s + 34V/30) }/{ V 0 {v 0 — v r0 cot e 0 ) \... (82) 

The power required to drive the pump will be 

HP = (v 0 wWQ)/(55O£);.(83) 


where W = the weight of i c. ft. of water in pounds. 

The actual power required to drive the pump will be greater than that 
given by the above expression, because of the mechanical and hydraulic 
resistances. 

SUCTION PIPES 


Since the condenser is usually placed as low down as possible it is 
essential that the suction head over the eye of the impeller be reduced to a 
minimum. To attain this the loss of head along the suction pipe should be 
reduced to a minimum by keeping the velocity of flow low. The radial 
velocity of the water entering the eye of the impeller should be low. 

A secondary reason why the suction pipe should be made large is to 
allow of any air which has leaked into the vacuum space of the pump, or 
the suction pipe itself, to flow back to the condenser and yet not restrict the 
flow to the pump sufficiently to cause erratic working of the pump. 

The water velocity in the suction pipe should not exceed 3 ft. per second. 




WATER-EXTRACTION PUMPS 


193 


EXAMPLES 

Example 1 .—A single-stage water-extraction pump is to deal with 60,000 lb. 
of condensate per hour, when drawing from a 28 in. Hg vacuum and dis¬ 
charging against a static head of 5 ft. The head of water in the suction 
pipe must not exceed 3 ft. over the centre of the eye of the impeller. The 
bore of the discharge pipe is 3 in. Calculate the necessary diameter of the 
impeller at a speed of 800 r.p.m. 

The exit angle 9 0 = 20° and the discharge pipe is 30 ft. long, and a 
volute is fitted to the pump. 

The friction loss will be 


Hp = (4/fo 2 )/(2£m). 

The friction loss in the suction pipe is here neglected, as the suction 
pipe velocity is usually made very low and the length of the pipe is kept as 
short as possible. 

H F = (4 X o*oi X 30 X S*46 2 X i2)/(64*4 x 3) 

= 2-21 ft. 


The total change in head across the pump will be 

H, = H - h s + 34V/30 + v//(2g) 

= 5 + 2-21 — 3 + (34 X 28)/30 + 5‘46 2 /64*4 
= 5 + 2-21 — 3 + 3 I- 73 + ° - 4 62 
= 36*402 ft. 


Taking the radial velocity v ri = v r0 = Vwe get 


Again we have 
or 


®rO = V' 64-4 X 36 - 402/4 

= I2*i ft. per second. 

®ro = O'o — V tv) tan# 0 , 

V w = — V r0 cotd 0 + v 0 
= V 0 — I2-I X 27475. 


Now from equation (79) we have 

H — k s + 34V/30 + v/l(2g) = (v 0 2 + Vri 2 - Vro 2 COSeC % + vJ/ 2 )/( 2 g), 
or 36-402 = [t’o 2 + I2-I 2 — i2-i 2 (i/o-342) 2 + (w 0 — 33-24) 2 /2]/64'4; 
2344 = V+ 146-4—146-4 X 8-55+ 0 0 2 —66-48^0+ no4'9)/2 
= i'5 v o 2 ~ 33 - 24^0 “ 55 2 , 4 ; 
v 0 2 — 22-i6v 0 — 1791-6; 

(v 0 — ii-o8) 2 = ii-o8 2 + 1791*6; 
v 0 = n-o8 ± 42-3 

= 53-38 ft. per second (taking plus sign). 


( D 450 ) 


13 



! 94 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


The revolutions per minute were given as 800, so that the necessary 
diameter of the impeller will be 

8oo7rD/(i2 X 60) = 53*38, 

or D = (53*38 X 12 X 6o)/(tt8oo) 

= 15*29 

Example 2 .—A water-extraction pump runs at 1000 r.p.m. and has an 
impeller 15 in. in diameter; the exit angle 9 0 of the vanes is 18 0 , and the 
static head on the discharge side is 10 ft., and on the suction side is 4 ft. 
The vacuum in the condenser is 29 in. Hg. The bore of the discharge pipe is 
4 in. and the length 30 ft.; the breadth of the impeller at the periphery is 
f in., and there are nine vanes each £ in. thick. Calculate the hydraulic 
efficiency and the horse-power, when the pump is dealing with 100,000 lb. 
per hour; neglect the friction loss in the suction pipe. The pump is single 
stage. 

The total rise in pressure on the water across the pump is 

H — h s + 34 v /3°> 

which equals 

10 + 4flv 2 l(2g) - 4 + (34 X 29)^0 
= 10 + (4 X o*oi X 30 x 5-n 2 /64*4) — 4 + (34 x 29)^0 
= 10 -f- 0-48 — 4 32*86 

= 39*34 ft. 

The peripheral velocity v 0 is 

v 0 = (ff X 15 X iooo)/(i2 X 60) 

= 65*4 ft. per second. 

To find the radial velocity v r0 we have 

{(” X 15 — 9 / 4 )/ I2 }(°' 75 / I2 Ko = 100,000/(3600 X 62-3), 

(371 X 075/12)^ = 100,000/(3600 X 62-3), 
v r0 = (12 X ioo,ooo)/(37i X 075 X 3600 X 62-3) 

= 1*9 ft. per second. 

The hydraulic efficiency rj is obtained from equation (82) 

V = [?(H — K -f 34 V/ 3 o)]/[»o(®o — *V 0 cot0 o )] 

= (32-2 x 39'34)/[65*4(65*4 - 1-9 x 3-077)] 

= 0-3256 

or 32*56 per cent. 

From equation (82) the horse-power necessary to drive the pump is 
HP = ( VoW WQ)/(5 ^), 



WATER-EXTRACTION PUMPS 


195 


To find v w we have from equation (74) 



*Vo = (®o “ O tan #o. 

or 

= V 0 — v r0 cot 0 o 


= 65-4- 1-9 X 3-077 


= 59*56 ft. per second, 

and 

CO = 65*4 X 12/15 


= 52*3 radians per second. 


WQ = the weight of water being dealt with in pounds per second 
= 100,000/3600 
= 27*8 lb. per second. 

Then substituting these numerical values in the HP equation we get 
HP = (59-56 X 15 X 52-3 x 27-8)/(32-2 x 12 x 550) 

= 6*i. 

The horse-power could also have been found by the external work done 
and the hydraulic efficiency, or 

HP = (100,000 X 47*38)/(33,ooo X 60 x 0-392) 

= 6-i. 

Example 3 .—In example 2 calculate what the maximum gain in head 
could be if a volute had been fitted to the pump, and calculate the hydraulic 
efficiency at the increased head. 

Answer .—Gain in head (max.) = 27*52 ft. 

Hydraulic efficiency = 56*14 per cent. 

Example 4 .—Find the relative velocity between the water and the vanes 
at exit of a water-extraction pump, having an impeller of 12 in. in diameter, 
running at 900 r.p.m. The radial velocity is 3*5 ft. per second, and the 
exit angle io°. Find also the actual velocity of the water leaving the wheel. 

Answer .—V r0 = 20*16 ft. per second. 

v t = 27*49 ft- P er second. 

Example 5.—If a whirlpool chamber be arranged round the impeller in 
example (4), and having an external diameter of 18 in., find the theoretical 
gain in head owing to the whirlpool chamber. 

Answer. —6*516 ft. 

Example 6 .—Find the area for flow necessary at the periphery of the 
impeller of a water-extraction pump, which has to deliver 90,000 lb. ot 
condensate per hour against a discharge pressure of 5 lb. per square inch, 
and draw from a vacuum of 28 in. Hg, with a suction head over the eye of 
the impeller of 4 ft. The vane angle at the exit is 12 0 ; the discharge pipe is 
4 in. bore, the radial and peripheral velocities at inlet are 3 ft. per second and 
55 ft. per second respectively. 

Answer. —12*44 S( F i n * 



196 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


PRACTICAL CONSIDERATIONS WHICH AFFECT THE DESIGN 
OF WATER-EXTRACTION PUMPS 

The foregoing theory of water-extraction pumps is based on the assump¬ 
tion that the pump runs full, and neglects (1) eddy losses, (2) impact losses, 
(3) unequal flow between vanes, (4) cavitation, &c. 

For the theoretical calculations to coincide with actual tests coefficients 
of varying amount must be applied. These coefficients take the form of 

2gH — Aw 0 2 ± Be/ 0 V r ± Cv r 2 . 


The coefficients, A, B, and C vary very considerably in different pumps, 
and depend on the design, the shape, and the dimensions of the passages, &c. 

One of the main conditions to be satisfied by a water-extraction pump is 
that it must lower the water level in the condenser down to the lowest limits 
to give good condenser drainage. This can only be accomplished by a 
centrifugal pump under conditions of cavitation, and it is the aim of all water- 
extraction pump designs to reduce the cavitation as much as possible. Since 
all cavitation cannot be avoided, it must be allowed for by making the inlet 
areas as large as possible. The large inlet area provided results in the eye of 
the impeller becoming abnormal, and the area through the impeller becomes 
a decreasing one. Bernoulli’s change of head (V r ,- 2 - V r0 2 )/(2£) (see p. 188) 
therefore becomes negative. 

The value of the radial velocity v ri is usually only about 50 to 60 per 
cent of the available velocity, or 

v ri = 0*5^2 gh s . 

In general the inlet areas for a water-extraction pump are 2 to 3 times that 
given by the foregoing theory. 



CHAPTER VIII 


Circulating Pumps 

The circulating pump used for circulating the cooling water in a modern 
surface condensing plant is invariably of the centrifugal type. These pumps 
are either motor driven or steam turbine driven. 

The underlying principles governing the design of these pumps follow 
the generally accepted laws, relating to centrifugal pumps. The formulae 
deduced on pp. 187 to 192 for water-extraction pumps are applicable to 
these pumps, if the heads be modified to suit the new conditions under 
which the pump operates. 

If H^, be the total suction and delivery head against which the pump 
operates, then equation (77), p. 189, becomes 

II/, + ®//(2 g) = (v 2 + v ri 2 - v r( f cosec 2 0 o )/(2£).(84) 

If the pump be fitted with a volute, then equation (79) (p. 190) becomes 
H p + vfl(2g) = (v 0 2 + tv,- 2 - v r0 2 cosec 2 0 o + \vj)j{2g). . .(85) 

If a whirlpool chamber only be fitted, then equation (80), p. 190, becomes 
H P +v/l(2g)= {v 0 2 +v ri 2 -v r 0 2 cosec 2 9 0 +(v w 2 +v r0 2 ) (i-1 jn 2 )}/(zg). . . (86) 

The quantity Q discharged by the pump will be the same as in equation 
(81), p. 191, since H p is the total rise in pressure on the water, or the total 


head against which the pump delivers, 

i.e. Q = A sin0 o \/ v 0 2 — 2gH p , .(87) 

and the power required to drive the pump will be 

HP = (i/?)(w)(WQ/55o).(88) 

(See equation (83), p. 192.) 


The total head H p is made up of the friction head across the condenser 
(see pp. 17 to 19); the friction head in the suction and discharge piping, 
valves, &c., and, if the circulating water system is not siphonic, the static 
head. 

The above formulae do not quite agree with the results of experiment, 
and the reader should refer to a paper read by Dr. Blackadder (session 
1923-1924) at the I.E.S., where the particular fact is brought out that the 
theoretical horse-power, as found from the above formula, is much in 
excess of the actual power taken by the pump. This, he remarks, is due 

197 






198 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


to the water not leaving the pump at the dimensional angles, and to the 
pump not running equally full between the vanes. 

DRYSDALE CIRCULATING PUMP 

Fig. 103 shows a section through a modern centrifugal circulating pump 
as manufactured by Messrs. Drysdale & Co., Yoker, and as used for cir¬ 
culating a surface condenser. The impeller is of the double entry type which 
ensures axial balance. A plain volute is adopted with no whirlpool chamber. 
The impeller is keyed to the driving spindle and located by double nuts 
at each side, the whole being supported by external bearings lined with 



white metal. The bearings are ring oiled by the double oil rings (12). Collars 
(14) are fitted to each end of each bearing, so that the oil which escapes out 
of the bearings is thrown off and returns to the oil well. The pump 
stuffing boxes are fitted with lantern rings (6) and water service pipe (1) 
to water seal the stuffing boxes, and so prevent the entrance of air at these 
points which would upset the working of the pump. As normally installed, 
a centrifugal circulating pump has a suction or inlet casing pressure less 
than that of the atmosphere; a leakage at the pump glands would therefore 
be a leakage of air into the suction chamber unless means were adopted to 
prevent it, the pressure sealed stuffing box is therefore adopted. 

This sub-atmospheric pressure in the suction or inlet casing is due 
to the normal location of the pump being above the suction water level, 
and is equal to the lift plus the reduction in pressure due to the friction 
loss in the suction pipe and the initiation of the flow along the pipe. Two 




CIRCULATING PUMPS 


199 


types of flexible coupling are shown, the right-hand one consists of a disc 
of leather placed between the two faces of the coupling; pins (15) are screwed 
through each face of the coupling in alternate pairs; the pins have projecting 
ends which pass through the leather disc. The left-hand design incorporates 
rubber pads (21) located between the driving pins (22) and the half coup¬ 
ling (20). These flexible couplings are primarily intended to allow of end 
play in the armature of motor driven sets; they also allow of spring in the 
bedplate owing to the holding down bolts not being evenly tightened up. 



Fig. 104 shows a set of characteristic curves from one of these pumps. 

Example 1. —The circulating pump fitted to a 10,000-kw. turbo-gen¬ 
erator set has to handle 8000 gall, of water per minute. The total suction 
and delivery head is 30 ft. Assuming that the radial velocity is constant 
through the impeller and equal to (i/^)\/2gH p , and that 9 is 20°; find the 
necessary peripheral velocity v 0 of the impeller, and hence the necessary 
impeller diameter when the speed of the pump is 500 r.p.m. The pump 
is fitted with a plain volute, and the discharge velocity is qoojt. per minute. 

From equation (85), p. 197, we have, - " 

H p + v/Kzg) = (w 0 2 + v n ~ ®*o 2 cosec 2 0 o + vj/2)l(2g). 

Now v/ = (400/60) 2 

= 44 ’ 4 - _, 

And v Tl 2 = v r0 2 = {(1/4)s/2,? X 30} 2 
= 64-4 X 30/16 
= 1207. 

cosec 2 0 o = cosec 2 20 c 

= ( I /°' 34 20 ) 2 

= 8-55. 

















































200 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


From equation (74), p. 187 we have 

®rO = (®0 — »«*) tan ^ 0 > 

or V120-7 — (r 0 — r,,) tan20°, 

or Vw = v<)-~ 10-98/0*364 
= — 3°‘ l6 - 

Then, substituting these numerical values in the above equation, we get 

30 + 44-4/64-4 = {v 0 2 + 120-7 - 120-7 x 8-55 + (v 0 - 3o-i 6) 2 /2)/64-4, 
i.e. v 0 2 — 2O-i2^ 0 = 1621*2. 

v o = 51*56 ft. per second. 

If D be the impeller diameter in inches, 

then (ttXDx 50o)/(i2 X 60) = 51-56, 

or D = (51-56 X 12 X 60 )/(t7 X 500) 

= 23-62 in. 

Example 2 .—Calculate the hydraulic efficiency rj and the horse-power 
necessary to drive the pump given in example 1. 

From equation (82), p. 192, we have 

V = <?{H - h s + (34V/30)}/{®o(®o - V rO cot ^o)}- 

The quantity {H — h s + (34V/30)} is the total pressure rise which in 
a circulating pump is h , and the above expression therefore becomes 

n = g ll I',M V 0 — *Vo COt0 o )}. 

Now from example 1, 

h = 30 ft, 

v 0 “ 51*56 ft- P er second, 

*Vo = V 1207, 

COt 0 o = cot 20° — 2-7475. 

Then, substituting these numerical values, we get 

r7 = 3 2- 2 X 3°/{5 i -56(5 i '5 6 - 27475V1207)} 

= 32-2 x 30/(51-56 x 21-4) 

— 0-87. 

From equation (88), p. 197, the horse-power necessary to drive the pump is 

HP = (i/*)(w)(WQ/55°). 



CIRCULATING PUMPS 


201 


From example i we get: 

— 3° >l6 

= 5 I- 5 6 — 3°' 16 
= 2i*4 ft. per second, 
r 0 = 23-62/(2 X 12) 

— 0-984 ft. 

CO = 277 X 500/60 

= 52-4 radians per second, 

Q == 80,000/(60 x 62-3) 

= 21-4 c. ft. per second, 

W — 62*3 lb. per cubic foot. 

Then, substituting these numerical values, we get 

HP = (1/32-2) (21-4 x 0-984 x 52-4) (62-3 x 2i-4)/55o 
= 83. 

Example 3 .—During the test of a surface condensing plant the fol¬ 
lowing observations were made. 

Quantity of steam condensed in pounds per hour, 83,260. 

Pressure gauge reading on centrifugal pump suction, 5 in. Hg vacuum. 
Pressure gauge reading on centrifugal pump discharge, 20 ft. head. 
Temperature of inlet water to main condenser, 50° F. 

Temperature of outlet water from main condenser, 66° F. 

Voltage of supply current to centrifugal pump motor, 400. 

Current, D.C. 

Reading of ampere meter on pump motor, 208. 

Assuming that each pound of steam condensed in the condenser gave 
up 990 B.Th.U. to the circulating water, estimate the efficiency of the 
circulating pump if the motor efficiency is 80 per cent. 

From equation (16), p. 16, the quantity of circulating water will be 

G = W( 9 L + t x - t 2 )l{ 6oo(T 2 - T\)} 

The quantity (qL -f- t x — / 2 ) 1S the heat imparted to the circulating 
water, and therefore is 990. 

Then G = 83260 x 900/(600(66 — 50)} 

= 8590 gall, per minute 
— 85,900 lb. per minute. 

The total head across the pump 

— head equivalent to vacuum on suction side + discharge head 

= (5 X 34 / 3 °) + 20 
= 5-67 + 20 
= 25-67 ft. 



202 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


The pump water horse-power will therefore be 

WHP = 85,900 X 25*67/33,000 
= 66 * 8 . 

The electrical horse-power supplied to the motor is 

EHP = volts X amperes/746 
— 400 X 208/746 
= 111*7. 

Since the motor efficiency is 80 per cent, the brake horse-power absorbed 
at the motor spindle will be 

BHP = iii*7 X o*8 

= 8 9 ' 4 - 

The pump efficiency will therefore be 

yrap/BHP = 66*8/89*4 = 0*746. 

SUCTION AND DISCHARGE PIPING FOR CIRCULATING 

WATER PUMPS 

The lay out of the circulating or cooling water piping in a modern land 
surface condensing plant is arranged in either of two ways, according to 
whether cooling towers are employed or not. When cooling towers are 
used the discharge is open and the circulating pump must overcome the 
static head. If the circulating water be drawn from a river or from the sea, or 
from where there is an abundant supply of cold water, the suction and dis¬ 
charge piping is usually arranged so that the flow is siphonic. By this means 
the total head to be overcome by the circulating pump is the hydraulic friction 
in the piping, valves and condenser only. The siphonic arrangement thus 
affects a considerable saving in the power required to drive the circulating 
pump, and this arrangement is always adopted where practicable. 

The circulating pump should be located in the pipe line, so that the 
length of suction piping is as short as possible, and the condenser should 
be on the discharge side of the pump. Centrifugal pumps always operate 
more stably when the greatest proportion of the total head is on the dis¬ 
charge side, and for this reason the suction head should be reduced to a 
minimum by keeping the piping as short and with as few bends as possible. 
The suction lift or the height at which the pump is placed above the water 
level in the river should also be kept as small as possible. To satisfy this 
condition it is common practice in power stations to have a separate pump 
house placed close to the river from which the pump draws, and in some 
cases vertical spindle pumps have been adopted, so that the pump could 
be placed very low down. 

The calculation of the pipe friction follows the same general law as 
was given on p. 82, that is 


II p = flv 2 l(2gm), 



CIRCULATING PUMPS 


203 

for a straight pipe of length l ft., and allowing as before 15 diameters for 
every easy bend, the above formula becomes 

h p 1 foV + l(2gm). 

For circular pipes this becomes, since m = D/4, 

U p = -UM/+ i 5 Dn)\l(2gD) .(89) 


The numerical value of the constant / was given on p. 82 as o-oi, this 
constant, however, varies with the velocity v and with the diameter D. 
It also varies with the roughness of the surface, and is less for new 
pipes than for old ones. / diminishes with increase in velocity and as 
the diameter D increases. For cast-iron pipes from 10 to 15 in. in 
diameter, / may be taken at o-oi; and from 10 to 5 in., 0-012; and from 
5 in. downward, 0-014. 

For practical computations of the probable friction loss in any circulat¬ 
ing water-pipe line system the variation in / with velocity may be neglected, 
as the above values of / are on the safe side, unless for very old pipe lines 
which are badly encrusted. To the above loss must be added the losses 
due to valves, sudden enlargements, strainers, &c., which may be in the 
line. To reduce these losses to the minimum, full-way valves are always 
employed, and sudden enlargements can be avoided by the fitting of taper 
distance pieces where necessary. 

The loss due to a sluice valve may be found from the following formula 
by Weisbach. 


The loss H v = Fv 2 /(2g), 


,( 9 o) 


where F has the following values according to the ratio r of the distance 
the valve is open to the diameter of the valve. 


r 

1 

8 

1 

4 

3 

8 

1 

2 

5 

8 

3 

4 

7 

S 

i-o 

F 

98 

!7 

\ 

5'5 

2-0 

o-8 

0'25 

0*07 

o-o 


Example I .—The circulating water system on a land surface con¬ 
densing plant is arranged siphonically. The total length of the suction 
and discharge piping is 150 ft., the quantity of water being pumped by 
the circulating pump is 12,000 gall, per minute, and the bore of the piping 
is 24 in. There are nine easy right-angled bends in the line; one sluice valve 
is fitted to the suction of the pump, and one to the discharge. The friction 
head in the condenser is 15 ft., and a sluice valve is fitted to the outlet 
branch. Estimate the total head against which the circulating pump must 
operate when the sluice valve on the condenser outlet is three-quarters 
open. 





204 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


From equation (89) the pipe friction will be 

H p = {4fv 2 /(2gD)}(l + K15D). 

Now v = (120,000 x i44)/(62*3 X 452*4 X 60) 

= io*22 ft. per second. 

/ may be taken at o-oi. 

Then H p = {4 X o*oi X io*22 2 /(64*4 X 2)}(i50 + 9X 15 X 2) 

= 13*62 ft. 

The loss at the outlet sluice valve is found from equation (90): 

H, = F 

= 0*25 x io*22 2 /64*4 
= °'4°5 ft * 

Since the discharge velocity will all be lost, the pump must maintain 
the head equivalent to this velocity, which is 

H L = * 2 /(2 g) 

= io *22 2 /64*4 
= 1*62 ft. 

The total head against which the pump must discharge is therefore 

H = H, + H v + H l + 15 
= 13*62 + 0*405 + 1*62 + 15 
= 30*645 ft. 

Example 2 .—The condensing plant on board a merchant ship is fitted 
with a turbine-driven circulating pump, having a steam consumption rate 
of 50 lb. per WHP hour. The friction head across the condenser is 21 ft., 
and when the ship is light the vertical distance between the centre line of 
the discharge overboard and the sea level is 20 ft. The total quantity of 
water circulating through the main condenser is 9000 gall, per minute, 
and the circulating water pipes are 20 in. in diameter, and have a total 
length of 40 ft. with 6 easy bends in the line. The loss in head across the 
inlet and outlet ship’s side valves and gratings is 6 ft. Estimate the total 
head against which the pump operates and the quantity of steam used by 
the pumps. 

The velocity v = 90,000 X 144/(62*3 X 60 X 314*16) 

= 11 ft. per second. 

The pipe friction will be 

H p = {4 x o*oi X ii 2 /(64*4 x 1*669)1(40 + 6 X 15 X 1*669) 

= 8*56 ft. 

The head equivalent to the discharge velocity is 

H l = U 2 l(2g) 

= 11 764-4 

i-88 ft. 



CIRCULATING PUMPS 


205 


The total head against which the pump operates is + H L + static 
head above the sea level + the loss across the ship’s side valves + con¬ 
denser friction 0 , co . , * > 

= 57-44 ft- 

The WHP = 90,000 X 57-44/33,000 

= is 6 ’ 6 ; 


and the steam consumption will be 


= 5° X 156*6 
— 7833 lb. per hour. 


Example 3 .—A land surface condensing plant has cooling towers pro¬ 
vided to cool the cooling water. The vertical distance between the water 
level in the suction culvert and the discharge pipe entering the top of the 
cooler is 40 ft. There is a non-return, multiple-shutter valve fitted to the 
discharge branch of the circulating pump, and the friction head across this 
valve is 3 ft. The total length of suction and discharge piping is 200 ft. 
and the bore 26 in., and there are 12 easy right-angled bends in the piping. 
The friction head in the condenser is 16 ft. Calculate the total head against 
which the pump works when 15,000 gall, of water are being pumped per 
minute, and calculate the brake horse-power necessary at the pump spindle 
if the pump efficiency is 75 per cent. 

The water velocity v in the piping is 

v — 150,000 X 144/(62*3 X 530*9 X 60) 

= 10*9 ft. per second. 

The pipe friction will be 

H Ip = {4 X o*oi X io* 9 2 /(2 X 32*2 X 2*i65)}(200 + 12 X 2*165 X 15) 

— 19*8 ft. 


The head equivalent to the discharge velocity 

H l = V*l( 2 g) 

= io-9 2 /64-4 
= 1-844 ft- 

The total head against which the pump works is 

= 19-8 + 1-844 + static head + condenser friction 
= 19-8 + 1-844 + 40 + 16 
= 77-6 ft. 

The brake horse-power at the pump spindle will be 

BHP = 150,000 X 77-6/(33,000 X 0-75) 

- 470. 



CHAPTER IX 


Evaporators 

It is rapidly becoming standard practice to instal evaporators in power 
stations to supply the necessary make-up water. The evaporator super¬ 
cedes the water softening plant, and in the modern installation having 
water tube boilers and steam turbines, it has many advantages over the 
water softening plant. 

The majority of natural waters are hard, that is, they have the power 
of destroying soap solution. The hardness is caused by the bicarbonates 
or sulphates of lime and magnesia. When bicarbonates are present the 
hardness is said to be “ temporary ”, and hardness due to sulphates is 
said to be “ permanent both, however, may be present in the same water. 
If water containing bicarbonates be boiled, these are decomposed with 
precipitation of most of the lime and magnesia. If the water contains 
sulphates, these are not removed by boiling; by suitable chemical means, 
however, they may be removed more or less completely, but the total 
amount of solids in the water is not affected, because the water after treat¬ 
ment contains an amount of sodium salts equivalent to the lime and 
magnesia salts which were present before treatment. The concentration 
of these solids takes place in the boiler, and they must be removed by the 
blowing down of the boiler. This involves a serious loss of heat. The 
principal advantage of the softening process is the prevention of the rapid 
scaling of the heating surfaces of the boiler due to the insoluble lime and 
magnesia salts. 

The evaporator produces pure distilled water free from solids, so that 
the loss of heat due to boiler blow down is eliminated. Owing to the 
purity of the water and the freedom from scale, the boilers can be worked 
at a much higher steaming rate, and their efficiency thereby improved. 
These facts were recognized by the British Admiralty many years ago, and 
they laid down the rule that the initial filling of naval boilers was to be 
done with pure distilled water and that all make-up water used thereafter 
was to be pure distilled water. It was only by this means that the high 
rate of steaming demanded from these boilers could be obtained and main¬ 
tained without priming. 

On land power stations the use of distilled water allows the peak loads 
to be comfortably met owing to the increased steaming capacity obtained; 

it is claimed that the emergency boiler capacity obtained is nearly doubled 

206 



EVAPORATORS 


207 


by the use of distilled water and that without fear of priming. Owing to 
the elimination of the blow down the necessary quantity of make-up required 
is reduced from about 5 to 6 per cent to 3 to 4 per cent. Since the raw 
water fed to the evaporator may be drawn from any source, it can frequently 
be obtained without charge, whereas the water fed to a water softening 
plant should be the best obtainable and is generally purchased at consider¬ 
able expense. If the evaporator be installed so that the heat in its vapour 
is utilized in the general feed heating scheme, the operating charges become 
very small; approximately 95 per cent of the total heat supplied to the 
evaporator can be recovered in the feed water. 

It is usual to instal single effect evaporators; but double or triple effect 
may be installed, if the efficiency of the feed heating scheme demand it. 

THE WEIR EVAPORATOR 

Figs. 105 and 106 show two views of a Weir vertical type evaporator 
as installed in land power stations. The heating surface is made up of 
heavy gauge copper tube coils (11) coiled in a horizontal plane; the steam 



passes through the interior of these coils, while the water being evaporated 
is on the outside; each coil is independent, and may be removed for clean¬ 
ing quite independent of the others. A steam pocket (10) and a drain pocket 
(8) are cast integral with the shell of the evaporator, and the ends of the 
coils are fixed to these pockets by special gun-metal couplings, one end of 
the coil being fixed to the steam pocket and the other end to the drain pocket. 
The full area of the tube is arranged in the coupling at the inlet end, but 














208 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


the area is restricted at the outlet or drain end. The bottom coil is 
arranged as a drain coil, that is, the drains from all the upper coils are 
collected at the bottom of the drain pocket and returned through the 
bottom coil to a drain chamber partitioned off from the steam pocket. 
The drain outlet is at (12). This arrangement of coils ensures a complete 
condensation of the steam without the necessity for continual regulation 
of the drain valve (14). To the steam inlet branch (10) is fitted the steam 
inlet valve (13) and pressure gauge (25). The shell of the evaporator is of 
cast iron and is fitted with safety valve (21), pressure gauge (23), vapoui 
outlet valve (22), water-level gauge cocks (19 and 20), blow-off cock (18), 
and automatic water-level regulator. A large door (2) is fitted to the 
front of the evaporator, so that the coils can be easily removed for cleaning 
purposes, the easy removal of the door is facilitated by the crane bar (27). 

The water level in these evaporators is normally 
arranged so that only about one-half of the coils are 
immersed by solid water, as it has been found by 
experience that good water is produced by carrying 
this water level without any reduction in quantity 
owing to the upper coils being out of solid water. 
This is due to the violent foaming and ebullition 
which takes place causing the water level to virtually 
rise, so that the upper coils are really evaporating 
or drying the steam. This has given to the upper 
coils the name of drying coils. The top of the 
water-level gauge glass is connected by the pipe (29) 
well up in the steam or vapour space, so that a 
shown in the glass. A baffle (4) is arranged inside 
the dome to prevent priming. 

Let fig. 107 represent an evaporator, and 

let P x be the pressure in the shell; 

P 2 , the pressure in the coils; 

V l9 the volume of the vapour at pressure P x ; 

V 2 , the volume of the steam at pressure P 2 ; 

S, the surface in square feet in the coils; 
t l9 the steam temperature at pressure P x ; 
t 2y the saturation temperature at pressure P 2 , 
t fy the temperature of the feed water entering; 

U, the temperature of the drain; 

the latent heat of the vapour at pressure P^ 

L 2 , the latent heat of the steam at pressure P 2 ; 

Q l9 the quantity of vapour produced in pounds per hour; and 
Q 2 , the quantity of steam used in pounds per hour. 

The heat given up by the steam in condensing in the coils and being 
cooled to temperature t d 

—■ Q2CL2 + t 2 — t d ) B.Th.U. per hour; 


Q, 




EVAPORATORS 


209 


or, if the dryness fraction of the entering steam be 

==: T" ^2 G) * 

The heat absorbed by the vapour in being produced from water at t f ° F. 
— Qi(Li + ti — t f ) B.Th.U. per hour. 


Neglecting radiation these two quantities of heat must be equal. 

02 ( 9^2 + t 2 — t d ) = Q 1 ( 1 L 1 + — t f ) .( 91 ) 

With a properly clad evaporator the radiation losses seldom exceed 2 per 
cent, so that, allowing this value for the radiation loss, the above equation 

becomes o- 9 8{Q 2 (?L 2 + t 2 - t d )} = Q X (L X + h-t f ) . (92) 

If the steam supply to the evaporator be superheated and if the 
temperature of the superheated steam be t s > then the heat given up by the 

steam is Q 2 {L 2 + y{t s - t 2 ) + t 2 - t d ), 


where y is the specific heat of the steam at pressure P x . The numerical 
value of y may be found from one of the published diagrams, such as that 
given in Steam Turbines by Goudie, or the heat given up by the steam may 
be found from the difference in total heats at pressure P x and temperature 
t s , and pressure P* and saturation temperature t 2 , from the steam tables. 

If H 2 be the total heat at temperature t 2 and pressure P 2 ; and H s the 
total heat at temperature t s and pressure P 2 , then the heat given up by the 

steamis ((H, — H 2 ) + L 2 + f 2 — t d }] 


and equation (91) becomes 

0 -98Q 2 {(H, — H 2 ) + L 2 + t 2 —■ t d ) = Qi jLjL + t x — fy}... .(93) 

From these expressions the quantity of vapour produced by the evapor¬ 
ator may be found for given conditions of supply and production. 


SURFACE IN EVAPORATORS 

Owing to the indeterminate and varying water velocity which takes 
place inside an evaporator shell, it is impossible to make allowance for the 
variation in heat flow with velocity, as was done in our consideration of 
surface condensers. An allowance may be made for the viscosity effect of 
the cold feed water entering the evaporator, but since the effect penetrates 
so short a distance into the evaporator and since the water is evaporated 
as well as heated, the viscosity effect may be neglected. The proportion 
of heat absorbed by the water during the period it is being heated is small 
compared with the proportion absorbed during evaporation. 

When fixing up the surface necessary in an evaporator, it is customary, 

( D 450) 14 





210 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


therefore, to allow a heat flow of so many B.Th.U. per square foot of 
surface per hour per degree F. of mean temperature difference. This 
heat flow is known as the rate of transmission of heat or transmission rate. 
The actual value allowed should vary with the shell pressure. This is due 
to the presence of air in the water fed into the evaporator. This air is 
liberated mainly on the tube surface, and the lower the shell pressure the 



30 25 20 15 10 5 0 5 10 «5 20 

VACUUM IN INCHES OF Hg. PRESSURE IN POUNDS PER Sq. INCH GAUGE. 

Fig. ic8.—Transmission Rates in Evaporators with Copper Coils 


greater will be the volume of air liberated. The increased air volume at 
reduced shell pressures will blanket off an increased proportion of the tube 
surface, so that the allowable transmission rate will progressively decrease 
as the shell pressure decreases. This appears to be borne out from test results. 

Fig. 108 gives working values of the transmission rate for various shell 
pressures for copper tubes, which have been found by the author to give 
reasonable results; for iron or steel tubes these should be reduced 40 per 
cent. These values are about the maximum which can be attained in practice, 
and they do not include a working margin to allow for the scaling of the coils. 


EVAPORATORS 


21 I 


If 0 m is the mean temperature difference between the steam and the 
water; 

R, the rate of transmission of heat from the steam to the water; and 
H F , the heat flow from the steam to the water; 


we have 


S = H F /(0 m R) 


( 94 ) 


The heat flow H F equals the heat absorbed by the vapour being pro- 
duced from water at tf F. 

••• S = + t 1 -t )/(0 m R).( 95 ) 


The heat flow also equals the heat given up by the steam in con¬ 
densing under the specific conditions. 


MEAN TEMPERATURE DIFFERENCE 

The true mean temperature difference in an evaporator cannot be found 
by Grashofs equation, as given on p. 4, because the heating of the feed 
water entering the evaporator is carried on to the evaporation of the water. 

If the feed water enters the evaporator at the temperature of evapora¬ 
tion and the steam is just condensed, that is, the drain from the evaporator 
coils is at the steam temperature, then the mean temperature difference 
is the steam temperature minus the evaporation temperature. This may 



TUBE 



Fig. 109 


be shown, fig. 109, by taking one coil and straightening it out and plotting 
a diagram of the temperature which obtains along the coil. 

The mean temperature difference shown by the shaded portion is clearly 
a constant and equal to ( t 2 — t x ). 

Now let the feed water enter at a temperature tj, and let the drain be 
cooled to temperature t d . The diagram then is as shown in fig. no. 

The steam enters the tube at A, and during its travel from a to b the 
temperature remains sensibly constant. Actually there will be a slight 
drop, due to the presence of air in the steam and to the pressure drop along 
the tube. At b the whole of the steam will be condensed, and thereafter 






212 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


the temperature will drop from b to c. The feed water enters the evapora¬ 
tor at B and flows outside the tube, and the temperature rises from d to e; 
at e evaporation commences and continues at constant temperature t ± to /. 

It is generally best to separate out the surface necessary for feed heat¬ 
ing from the surface necessary for evaporation, and provide a surface 
equal to the sum of the two. The mean temperature difference for the 
evaporating surface will be (t 2 — ^), and for the feed heating surface the 
difference may be found from Grashofs equation. The feed heating 
surface is small compared with the evaporating surface, and some designers 
allow for it by lowering the transmission rate slightly, and take the mean 
temperature difference as simply ( t 2 — f x ). 


a b 



Fig. no 


Example i. —An evaporator is to produce 50 tons of water per 24 hr. 

when supplied with raw feed water at a temperature of 6o° F. The vapour 

produced is led to an auxiliary exhaust range at a pressure of 5 lb. per square 

inch gauge, and the steam supply is dry saturated steam at a pressure of 

100 lb. per square inch gauge. Calculate the quantity of steam which must 

be supplied to the evaporator, and the surface necessary when copper coils 

are fitted. £ , 

50 tons or water per 24 hr. 

= 50 X 2240/24 

= 4666 lb. per hour. 

Assuming t d — t 2 in the equation (92), that is, the steam is discharged 
from the coils at steam temperature, the equation becomes 

o*98Q 2 88o = 4666(961-3 + 227-4 “ 6°), 
or Q 2 == 4666 x 1128-7/(0-98 x 880) 

= 6106 lb. per hour. 




EVAPORATORS 


213 


This gives a ratio 

steam supplied/vapour produced = 6106/4666 

= I- 3- 

Separating out the evaporating and feed heating surfaces we have: 

For the evaporating surface the mean temperature difference 9 m is 

— h h 
= 337*9 “ 227-4 
= 110-5° F. 

Now from equation (94) 

S, = H F /( 0 m R) 

= QiW(W 

From fig. 108 R = 1180 B.Th.U. 

S c = 4666 X 961*3/(110*5 X 1180) 

= 34*44 s q* ft* 

For the feed heating surface we have 
°m = {(4 - t f ) - (t 2 - 4 )}/[ 2’3 {(4 - tf)/(t 2 - *i)}] 

= \ (337'9 — 60)—(337-9—227-4)} ll 2 '3 l°g{ (337'9—M/(337’9 —22 7*4)}] 

= x67’4/(2-3 X 0-4006) 

= 186° F. 

Taking R = 600 B.Th.U. we get 

S H = 4666(227-4 — 6o)/(i86 X 600) 

= 7 sq. ft. 

The total surface therefore will be 

S = 34-44 + 7 
= 41-44 sq. ft. 

Example 2.—Find the quantity of vapour which will be produced 
by an evaporator when supplied with 5000 lb. of exhaust steam per hour 
at a pressure of 4 lb. per square inch gauge, and having a dryness fraction 
of 0-9. The vapour is passed to a distiller wherein a vacuum of 15 in. Hg 
is maintained. The feed is raw water at a temperature of ioo° F., and the 
drain from the evaporator coils has a temperature of 190° F. State also 
the ratio between the steam supplied and the vapour produced. (Neglect 
radiation losses.) 

By equation (91), p. 209, we have 

Q 2 (?L 2 + *2 Id) = Qi(Li + *1 — t/)> 

5000(0-9 X 962-4 + 224-4 — 190) = Q x (990*5 + 179 — ioo), 
or Q ± = 5000 X 900-56/1069-5 
== 4210 lb. per hour. 



214 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


The ratio will be 

steam supplied/vapour produced = 5000/4210 

= 1*18. 


Example 3 .—During the test of an evaporator for a land power 
station the following figures were taken: 


Shell pressure 
Coil pressure 

Temperature of coil drain 
Temperature of feed 
Temperature of steam entering coils 
Quantity of vapour produced 
Quantity of steam supplied 


5 lb. per square inch gauge. 
71*3 lb. per square inch gauge 
300° F. 

6o° F. 

460° F. 

6025 lb. per hour. 

7450 lb. per hour. 


Find the percentage of heat lost by radiation and state number of heat 
units lost per 24 hr. 

In place of equation (93), p. 209, we write 

*q 2 ; (H s — h 2 ) + l 2 -h h — td} = Qi {Lx + 4 — //}, 

where x is the fraction of the heat used so that (1 — x) will be lost. 

By substituting the various numerical values in the above equation 
we get 

X= {6025 (961- 3 +227-4—60) j-/{7450(i209—n83-6+896'4-f 317-4—300)} 
= 6025 X 1128-7/(7450 x 939-2) 

- 0-97. 


The percentage of heat lost by radiation will therefore be 

= (1 — 0-97)100 
= 3 per cent. 

The number of heat units lost per 24 hr. will be 

= o-03Q 2 (H s — H 2 + L 2 + t 2 — ^24 
= 0-03 X 6250 X 939-2 X 24 
= 4,226,250 B.Th.U. 


SEA-WATER EVAPORATORS 

To prevent the density rising in the shell of an evaporator fed with sea 
water a brining apparatus is sometimes fitted, so that a portion of the brine 
is continuously withdrawn. The density of sea water is normally 1/32 
and it is customary to limit the density in the shell to 3/32, this being the 
density at which precipitation commences. To keep the density down to 



EVAPORATORS 


215 


this figure one-third of the feed water fed into the shell must be extracted 
as brine, while the remaining two-thirds are evaporated. The quantity 
of feed will therefore be one and a half times the production. The heat 
taken up in the evaporator will be the heat necessary to raise i^Qj lb. per 
hour from t f to ty F., and evaporate Q x lb. per hour into vapour at tem¬ 
perature t y and pressure 1\, or the heat taken up 

= Q X L X + {i , 5Q 1 (t 1 — t/)} B.Th.U. per hour. 

The heat exchange equation then becomes 

o-98Q 2 (?L 2 + t 2 - t d ) = QxLi + {i-5Qi(<! - #/)}.(96) 

The surface will be 

s =-- o-98Q 2 (?L 2 + t 2 — t d )/(6 m R) = -! QiLi + 1 -sQi(h - t f )} /( 0 m R). •. (97) 

Owing to the more rapid scaling which takes place in a sea-water 
evaporator, the coils require more frequent cleaning than they require in an 
evaporator fed with fresh water. As the scaling takes place the produc¬ 
tion falls off, consequent on the increased resistance to heat flow across the 
coils. The scale which adheres to the coils is a very bad conductor of heat 
and greatly retards the flow of heat. On board ship it is very important 
to maintain the evaporator production, and to achieve this the customary 
practice is to increase the steam pressure in the coils. This increased pres¬ 
sure gives an increase in the temperature difference 9 m , so that the produc¬ 
tion can be maintained till the end of a voyage. The scale found on the 
coils of a high-pressure sea-water evaporator is very much harder and more 
difficult to remove than that found on a low-pressure evaporator fed with 
the same sea water; this is due to the higher temperature of the high- 
pressure steam. The coils in the Weir evaporator shown in fig. 106 are 
arranged after the fashion of an Archimedian spiral, so that they tend to 
open out with heating and tend to coil up with cooling. This property is 
made use of with a view to breaking off the scale which adheres to the tubes. 
The procedure is to close the vapour valve and let the shell pressure rise 
till the safety valve blows; when this happens the coils will be at their maxi¬ 
mum temperature, and consequently will be opened out to their fullest 
extent. The steam valve and all valves on the shell are thereafter closed. 
The blow-off cock is then opened and the water in the shell is blown into 
the sea. A partial vacuum will be formed in the shell due to the vapour 
condensing; cold sea water will then be drawn up through the blow-down 
pipe and into the shell, thereby increasing the vacuum, which results in 
a large volume of cold sea water entering the shell and surrounding the 
hot coils. This sudden cooling of the coils causes them to suddenly coil 
up, which results in much of the scale being broken off. This scale falls 
to the bottom of the evaporator and can be periodically removed through 
the cleaning door. An alternative method is to remove the front door, then 
turn on steam to the coils thereby heating them. The steam is thereafter 
shut off and a jet of cold water played on the tubes. 




216 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


Example .—An evaporator for a merchant ship is to produce 60 tons 
of pure distilled water per 24 hr. from sea water at 50° F. The pressure 
of the steam in the coils is to be 80 lb. per square inch gauge, when the coils 
are clean, and the temperature of the coil drain is 5 0 F. lower than the 
entering steam temperature. The shell pressure is 5 lb. per square inch 
gauge. Calculate the surface necessary to give the above production, and 
calculate what the steam pressure will be when the coils are so scaled up 
that the transmission rate is reduced to three quarters its value with clean 
coils. 

We shall treat this question by taking a slightly lower value of the trans¬ 
mission rate R than is given in fig. 108 for a shell pressure of 5 lb. per 
square inch gauge. From equation (97): 

s = {q^ + i-sQ 1 (t 1 -t f )\i(e m Ry, 

Q 1 = 60 X 2240/24 = 5600 lb. per hour; 

L x = 961*3 from the steam tables; 

t x = 227*4° F. from the steam tables; 

t f = 50° F.; 

K = (*2 - h ) = (323-5 - 227-4) = 9 6<i ° f - 

From fig. 108 R = 1180. Making this 5 per cent less we get 
R = 1180 x 0*95 = 1121 B.Th.U. 

Substituting these values in the above equation we get 

S = (5600 X 961-3 -f 1-5 x 5600 x i77‘4)/(96-i x 1121) 

= 6,375,600/(96-1 x 1121) 

= 59‘ l8 sq- ft- 

When the transmission rate has fallen to three-quarters its original 
value R will be 1121 X J = 840-75 B.Th.U. 

Then 59-18 = (5600 X 961-3 + 1-5 X 5600 Xi 77 - 4 )/( 0 m X 840-75), 
or 0 m = 6,375,600/(59-18 x 840-75) 

= 128-1° F. 

Now 0 m = {t 2 - 4), 

or t 2 = 128*1 + 227*4 

= 355 - 5 ° F. 

From the steam tables the pressure corresponding to this temperature 
is approximately 144 lb. per square inch absolute. 

CONTINUOUS BRINING OF SEA-WATER EVAPORATORS 

It was stated on p. 214 that to maintain the density in an evaporator 
under 3/32 a brining apparatus was sometimes fitted. The method is known 
as continuous brining and is standard practice in naval vessels. Owing 



EVAPORATORS 


217 


to the more general use of water-tube boilers in merchant ships, continuous 
brining is now rapidly becoming standard practice with this class of vessel 
also, and practically does away with the necessity for the regular cleaning 
of the coils. 

The Admiralty method is to draw 
the brine from the evaporator by a 
ram pump, and discharge the brine 
overboard. To the suction pipe of this 
pump is fitted a brine cooler, which is 
supplied with a quantity of cold water 
from the discharge of the evaporator 
feed pump. The brine pump therefore 
deals with the brine in a diluted and 
cooled state, and by this means salting 
up of the valves and pump generally is 
prevented. The feed pump and the 
brine pump are driven by the same steam Fig. m.—weir Brine Ejector 

cylinder and therefore run at the same 

speed; the volumes of the two pumps are so proportioned that the relative 
quantities of feed and brine dealt with can be regulated to maintain the 
density at 3/32. 

Merchant ship evaporators are commonly fitted with brine ejectors of 
the water-jet type. Fig. 111 shows the brine ejector as fitted to the Weir 
evaporator. 

The operating water is cold sea water taken from the sanitary tank 
which is generally placed high up in the engine-room, so that sufficient 
head is obtained to work the ejector. The operating water is passed through 
a converging nozzle, and issues with a velocity commensurate with the 
height of the sanitary tank and the pressure between the brine valve and 
the nozzle exit. The high velocity jet draws the brine through the brine 
regulating valve and discharges it into the convergent-divergent diffuser 
nozzle, where a portion of the velocity energy is 
converted into pressure energy, thus enabling the 
ejector to discharge overboard. 

The brine valve is relatively small and of conical 
shape, so that the velocity past the valve is high; this 
gives a scouring action to prevent the valve salting 
up, which would otherwise occur owing to the re¬ 
duction in pressure and consequent self evaporation 
which takes place across this valve. 

THEORY OF BRINE EJECTOR 

The theory of this brine ejector is that of a jet 
pump dealing with a mixture of steam and water. v d 

Let fig. 112 represent the ejector. 




Fig. 112 



2l8 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


Let p x be the operating water pressure in pounds per square inch 
absolute; 

p 2 , the pressure in the suction chamber per square inch absolute; 
p Sl the evaporator shell pressure in pounds per square inch absolute; 
p d , the discharge pressure in pounds per square inch absolute; 
t ly the temperature of the operating water, degrees F.; 
t 2y the temperature in the suction chamber, degrees F.; 

* 3 , the temperature of the brine, degrees F.; and 

tf 4 , the temperature of the mixture being discharged, degrees F. 

The cold water issuing from the nozzle condenses the steam formed 
by the reduction in pressure across the brine valve, that is, from p z to p 2 , 
and cools the brine to the discharge temperature / 4 . The steam is 
condensed on the surface of the cold operating jet. The temperature t 2 is 
dependent on the operating water temperature, and the surface of the jet 
presented to the steam in unit time. 

If h z be the heat in the brine at pressure /> 3 , and H 2 total heat of the 
steam which has vaporized at pressure p 2y and h 2 the sensible heat of the 
brine at pressure p 2 , we get, since the total heat per pound of brine before 
the brine value is the same as the total heat per pound of mixture of brine 
and steam after the brine value, 

h 3 -- xH 2 + (i — x)h 2y 

where ^ is the fraction of brine vaporized by the throttling at the brine 
valve. 

If L 2 be the latent heat of the steam at pressure li 2 the above expres¬ 
sion becomes 

(*3 - 32) = *(L 2 + h - 32) + (1 — *)(<a - 32).(98) 

Let v 1 be the velocity of efflux from the operating water nozzle in feet 
per second; 

v 2y the velocity of the brine entering the diffuser nozzle in feet per 
second; 

*v t , the velocity of the combined mass of brine and operating water 
at the throat section of the diffuser in feet per second; and 
v dy the velocity at the diffuser outlet in feet per second. 

The effective pressure causing flow in the operating water nozzle is 

(Pl ~ Pi) ' ••• = ^2g( Pl - /> 2 ) 2 - 3 ,.( 99 ) 

where C is the coefficient of velocity which varies between 0-9 and 0*95. 

The velocity v t may be found from the momentum equation, and if 
M w is the mass of operating water in pounds per second and M 6 the mass 
of brine extracted from the evaporator in pounds per second, the equation 

M^ 2 + + M w ), 

or v t = (M b v 2 + + M w ). 





EVAPORATORS 


219 


To allow for eddy losses which obtain in a practical ejector the above 
expression should be multiplied by a factor K, which varies between o*8 
and 0*9. 

Then v t = K{ (M b v 2 + M^)/(M 6 + M tv )\ .(100) 

Between the throat section and the discharge outlet the water velocity 
decreases and the pressure rises, so that by Bernoulli’s theorem we have 
(neglecting the difference in level between throat and outlet) 

(VM?) + 2-3 p 2 = (v//2g) + 2'3 p d . 

The efficiency of the diverging portion of the diffuser nozzle is generally 
about 70 per cent. Inserting this value in the above expression we get 

07 U*Y 72 £) + 2-3^ 2 } = {v//2g) + 2'3p d .(iOl) 

If A x be the area in square inches of the operating water nozzle; 

A t , the area in square inches of the diffuser throat; and 
A di the area in square inches of the diffuser outlet; 

we have (M w + M b )/M w = ^AJ^Aj), 
or AJA 1 = ^(Ma, + 

and AJA d = v t \v d . 

Example 1.—A brine ejector is to withdraw a maximum of 1800 lb. 

of brine per hour from a marine evaporator and discharge the brine to sea. 

The shell pressure in the evaporator is 0*5 lb. per square inch gauge, and 
the pressure of the operating water is 20 lb. per square inch gauge. The 
sea level is 10 ft. above the ejector, and the water level in the evaporator 
is 2 ft. above the ejector. Calculate the quantity of operating water 
necessary, when the discharge velocity v d is 5 ft. per second. 

From equation (99) and assuming the pressure head of 0-5 lb. per 
square inch + 2 ft. of water head carried right up to the operating water 

nozzle exit, /— --— 

Vi = 0-9V 2 g(p 1 — p 2 ) 2-3 _ 

= o-9«/64-41 (20 — °' 5) 2 '3 — 2} 

= 47*27 ft. per second. 

Since the maximum quantity of brine is being dealt with the brine 
valve will be full open, and the pressure due to the head of brine in the 
evaporator will be carried right up to the operating water nozzle exit. The 
velocity v 2 will therefore be very low, and, since we have in the equation 
for v x taken the pressure head right up to the operating water nozzle 
exit, the velocity v 2 may be taken as zero. 

Then from equation (100) we have 

= K{(AV 2 + M w v 1 )j(M b + M ro )}, 
i.e = KjM^AM* + M ro )| 

= °‘8s[(M w X 47-27)/{(1800/3600) + M„[] 

•= 40*i7M ro /(o*5 + M„). 





220 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


From equation (ioi) we have 

0 - 7 {K 2 M?) + 2-3/> 2 } = (vf/2g) + 2-3 p d , 

or, neglecting the friction loss in the discharge pipe, 

t 0-7 {Wl*g) + 2-3 x 0-5} = (25/2 g) + 10, 

or v t = 30-9 ft. per second. 

Substituting this value of v t in the equation for M w , we get 

30-9 = 40'I7MJ(o- 5 + M„) ( 
i.e. Mjy — 1-67 lb. per second 
= 6012 lb. per hour. 

Example 2.—During the test of a brine ejector the following figures 
were taken. Calculate the efficiency of the diffuser nozzle. The discharge 
velocity v d was 4 ft. per second. 

Pressure at inlet of operating water, 15 lb. per square inch. 

Pressure in evaporator shell, 5 lb. per square inch. 

Vacuum in ejector suction chamber, 6 in. Hg. 

Pressure at discharge, 2 lb. per square inch. 

Quantity of mixture of brine and operating water discharge, 9600 lb. 
per hour. 

Quantity of operating water supplied, 7600 lb. per hour. 


The water velocity v 1 will be, from equation (99), 

®i = 0-9 V 2g(p x — p 2 ) 2-3 
. = 0-9^64-4(15 + 2-94)2-3 

= 46-35 ft. per second. 

From equation (101) we have 

e <j{(^ 2 / 2 £) + 2-3 p 2 } = {vf/zg) + 2-3 p d , 

where is the diffuser efficiency; 

E d {(v t 2 /2g) - 2-3 x 2-94} = (16/2 :g) + 2-3X2 
E d ® t 2 - 435 E d = 3 12 - 


The quantity of brine is 

M 6 = (9600 — 76oo)/36oo 
= 0-556 lb. per second. 

The quantity of operating water 

M„ = 7600/3600 

= 2-11 lb. per second. 



EVAPORATORS 


221 


From equation (ioo) we have 

= K{(M^ 2 + M^KM, + M.)}. 

Taking v 2 — o, and K = 0*85, this reduces to 

v t = 0-85{(2-xi X 4 6 - 35 )/(°- 5 S 6 + 2 ' 11 )} 

= 31*18 ft. per second. 

Then substituting this value of v t in 

^d v t - 435 E d = 312 

Ed = 3 I2 /537 
= 0-58, 

or the efficiency of the diffuser = 58 per cent. 

CONTINUOUS FEED TO EVAPORATORS 

It is very essential that the feed water fed to an evaporator should be 
continuous and controlled, and for this purpose all high-class evaporators 
are fitted with some form of water-level regulator. These regulators usually 
work on the float principle and maintain a constant water level inside the 
evaporator. 

Fig. 113 shows the regulator as fitted to 
the Weir evaporator, and works on the float 
principle. 

The regulator is bracketed to the shell of 
the evaporator, and has a top connection to 
the steam dome of the evaporator, and a 
bottom connection to below the water level 
in the evaporator shell. This arrangement 
gives a still water level in the regulator, so 
that the float is not disturbed by the ebul¬ 
lition inside the shell, and a smooth working 
of the regulator is thereby ensured. The 
regulating or throttle valve consists of a 
hollow brass plug, working inside a brass 
sleeve; ports are cut in both plug and 
sleeve, so that as the float rises or falls these 
ports are put out of, or brought into register, 
thus controlling the quantity of water fed 
into the evaporator as required to maintain the water level constant. The 
feed water entering first passes the regulator stop valve, then through the 
ports in the sleeve and the regulating valve to the inside of the valve. It 
then flows downwards and enters the evaporator low down on the shell. 
The feed supply to the evaporator is generally taken from the sanitary 
tank which is continuously kept full by the sanitary pump, and the brine 
ejector and feed regulator are fed from the same pipe. 



Fig. 113.—Weir Evaporator Water-level 
Regulator 


222 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


SAFETY VALVES ON EVAPORATORS 

To all intents and purposes an H.P. evaporator is a steam boiler and is 
reckoned as such by the Board of Trade. This body has issued rules relative 
to the size of the safety valve to be fitted on the shell, so that in event of 
a tube bursting the pressure will not rise to a dangerous limit (see p. 225). 

Evaporators have generally cast-iron shells which will not withstand 
boiler pressure. Boiler pressure would obtain if no safety valve were fitted 
and the vapour valve were inadvertently closed or a coil tube burst. To 
guard against such possibilities with H.P. evaporators, a restriction nozzle 
is fitted to the steam supply pipe or valve, which is of such a bore that the 
quantity of steam passing this nozzle would be passed by the safety valve 
when the shell pressure is not so high as to be dangerous. 

Let a be the nozzle area in square inches; 

A, the safety valve area when the valve is open to its fullest extent 
(this is generally termed when the valve has popped); 

P, the maximum steam supply pressure in pounds per square inch 
absolute; and 

p , the safety shell pressure in pounds per square inch absolute. 

It is assumed that in the event of a tube 
bursting the burst is of such a nature that it 
causes no restriction to the flow of steam. The 
assumed conditions therefore will be as show’n 
in fig. 114, that is, the steam passes the nozzle 
without restriction directly into the shell. 

If the safety pressure p is below the critical 
pressure for P (as is generally the case), then the 
quantity of steam passing the nozzle will be 

w = C d] p‘2iS$as/'PI\ 1 lb. per second,. .(102) 

where V x is the specific volume of the steam at 
pressure P and C dl is the coefficient of discharge for the nozzle. 

The drop in pressure across the safety valve is generally slightly over 
the critical, that is, the ratio of atmospheric pressure to p is less than 0*5457. 
In this case also the quantity of steam w hich will pass the safety valve is 

w = C d 2 0-3I55AVp/v 2> 

where V 2 is the specific volume of the steam at pressure p> and C^ 2 is the 
coefficient of discharge for the safety valve. 

These tw T o quantities of steam must be equal for settled conditions, 

so that _ _ 

C dl o-3i55 a ^l^i = C rf2 o~3i55A v/j>/V 2 , 

or a /A = (CJC^WpYJPY, .(103) 

The area (a) of the nozzle must be such that the steam quantity necessary 





EVAPORATORS 


223 


for normal working of the evaporator will pass, and for this purpose the 
evaporator should be designed to produce its rated output at about 100 lb. 
per square inch. The pressure drop across the restriction nozzle under 
normal working conditions will then be from the boiler pressure to 100 lb. 
per square inch. If be the working pressure in the coils, and W the 
quantity of steam in pounds per second necessary for normal working of 
the evaporator, then as P w is below the critical pressure the minimum 
area of the nozzle must be that given by the following expression. 


w = C dl o-3issa\/'PJV 1 , .(104) 

or a = (W/C^issJW./P..(105) 


Example I .—The restriction nozzle as fitted to a marine evaporator 
is to pass 5000 lb. of steam per hour for normal working. The steam supply 
pressure is 250 lb. per square inch gauge, and the coil pressure is 100 lb. 
per square inch gauge. Calculate the area of the nozzle required, assuming 
a coefficient of discharge of 0-65 for a sharp edged nozzle, and the steam 
supplied as being dry and saturated. 

From equation (105) we have 


and 


« = (W/C (il o • 3 i 5 5)n/V 1 /P to ; 

W = 5000/3600 = 1-389 lb. per second, 

P = 2647 lb. per square inch absolute, 

V 1 = 1-75 c. ft. per pound (from the steam tables). 
a = {1-389/(0-65 x 0-3155)}x/i75/2647 
= 0-54 sq. in. 


CONDITIONS WHEN A T UBE BURSTS _ 

When a tube bursts in an evaporator it is assumed that the flow from 
the restriction nozzle into the evaporator shell is unimpeded. Assuming 
this condition we have that the steam flowing through the restriction nozzle 
has its velocity increased, and the total heat in the steam as it leaves the 
restriction nozzle will be lowered by an amount equal to the increase in the 
velocity energy possessed by the steam as it leaves the nozzle. The steam 
thereafter will pass to the evaporator shell unimpeded, where the velocity 
or kinetic energy will all be frittered down into heat. On the whole no 
work will be done, so that the total heat of the steam in the evaporator 
shell will be equal to that possessed by the steam before it entered the 
restriction nozzle. This neglects the small amount of kinetic energy in the 
steam before it entered the nozzle. The condition of the steam in the 
evaporator shell is generally best found from the total heat entropy chart, 
by reading horizontally from the total heat in the steam supplied to the 
shell pressure curve, when the condition may read off. 

Example 2.—Taking the evaporator given in example 1, find the steam 
temperature in the shell when a tube has burst and the safety valve is 
blowing off at a pressure of 15 lb. per square inch gauge. 





224 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


The total heat of dry saturated steam at 250 lb. per square inch gauge 
pressure is, from the steam tables, 1202*3; moving horizontally, on the H C P 
chart, from this total heat till we arrive at the 30 lb. per square inch absolute 
curve, we read the superheat to be 8o° F., so that the steam temperature 
will be 250 + 80 = 330° F. The steam in the evaporator shell will there¬ 
fore be at a pressure of 30 lb. per square inch absolute and at a total tem¬ 
perature of 330° F.; these are the steam supply conditions to the safety 
valve, and from the steam tables the volume V 2 of this steam may be found. 

Example 3 .—Let it be required to find the area through the safety 
valve for the foregoing evaporator. 

From equation (103) we have 

a /A = (C d JC dl )*SpVj?V 2 . 

Now p is 30 lb. per square inch absolute; 

P, 265 lb. per square inch absolute; 

C^ 2 , say o*6 for the safety valves; 

C*. 0*65 as before; 

Vi, 1*75 c. ft. as before; 

V 2 , 15*5 c. ft. (from the steam tables for 30 lb. per square inch and 
330° F.); and 
a , 0*54 sq. in. 

Then, substituting these values in the above equation, we get 

o-54/A = (0-6/0-65) V^o X 175)7(265 X 15-5), 
or A = 0*54 x o*65/(o*6 x 0*1132) 

= 5*16 sq. in. 

If the diameter of the safety valve be 5J in. then the lift would be 
0*262 in. 

When the pressure drop across the safety valve is less than the critical, 
that is, if the ratio of atmospheric pressure to the safety shell pressure is 
less than 0*5457, the steam flow past the safety valve is best found from 
the heat drop. 

Let H be the total heat in the steam inside the shell, and for the assumed 
conditions of free flow across the burst tube, will equal the total 
heat in the steam in front of the restriction nozzle; 

/*, the total heat in the steam as it is discharged past the safety faces; 

J, Joule’s equivalent = 778 B.Th.U.; and 

v y the maximum steam velocity past the safety valve faces; 


Then v*l(2g) - J(H -A), 

or v = V / 2^ r J(H — h)y .(106) 

and w = (C d2 A/i44V 3 )v / 2gJ(H - h) .(107) 


The value of H — h may be read off directly from the II‘b chart, 
and V» the volume per pound of the steam as it leaves the safety valve 





EVAPORATORS 


225 

faces, may be deduced from the conditions of the steam at that point as 
shown on the H<F chart. 

Example 4 .—The total heat in the steam in the evaporator shell is 
1247 B.Th.U., and the shell pressure is 20 lb. per square inch absolute. 
Calculate the necessary area past the safety valve faces to pass 6000 lb. 
per hour. Take the coefficient of discharge as 0-56. 

From equation (107) we have 

W = { CA/(144V 3 )} 2g] (H - h), 

= 6000/3600 
= i*668 lb. per second, 

C d2 =--- 0-56. 

The ratio 14-7/20 = 0-735, s0 that the heat drop is within the critical 
range and will therefore be from 20 lb. to 14*7 lb. per square inch. To 
find the heat drop (H — h), drop a vertical on the H<f> chart from the 
intersection of the 1247 horizontal, and the 20 lb. pressure curve on to the 
14*7 lb. pressure curve, and read the total heat h on the lower horizontal. 
The value of (H — h) thus found is (1247 — 1218) = 29 B.Th.U. 

The value of V 3 is found from the condition of the steam at the lower 
horizontal on the H<f> chart. At the intersection of the lower horizontal 
and the 14*7 lb. pressure curve read along the temperature curve, and we 
read the superheat as 145 0 F. The total steam temperature will therefore 
be the saturation temperature at 14*7 lb. per square inch plus 145, or 
212 + 145 = 357 0 F. From the steam tables we find that steam at 
14*7 lb. per square inch absolute and 357 0 F. has a volume of 33 c. ft.; 
i.e. V 3 = 33 - 

Then, substituting these values in the above, we get 

1-668 = {0-56.4/(33 X 144)}^64-4 X 778 X 29, 
or A = i*668 X 33 X 144/(0*56 X 1205) 

= 11*74 s< 3* m - 


BOARD OF TRADE RULE FOR THE SIZE OF 
EVAPORATOR SAFETY VALVES 


The rule issued by the Board of Trade for the relation between the 
area of the restriction nozzle and the area of the safety valve for marine 
evaporators is as follows: ^ __ ^p/(6P) 


where a is the area of the restriction nozzle in square inches (the nozzle is 
sharp edged); 

A, the combined area of the safety valves; 

p 9 the working shell pressure in the evaporator in pounds per 
square inch absolute; and 

P, the pressure of the steam supply to the evaporator in pounds 
per square inch absolute. 


( D 450 ) 


15 



226 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


TESTING BRINE DENSITY 

The scale of brine density used for evaporators is in thirty-seconds. 
This is merely a convention, and originated in consequence of the fact that 
ordinary sea water at a temperature of 200° F. contains about 1/32 part 
of its weight of matter in solution. The density of sea water therefore at 
a temperature of 200° F. is 1/32; this density increases as the temperature 
is reduced, and for comparative purposes the density is usually referred to 
200° F. as a standard. 

On this same scale ordinary towns’ fresh water has a density o. 


DENSITY IN 32 NDS 



Fig. 115.—Weir Density-Temperature Chart for Brine 


To determine the brine density in an evaporator a small portion of 
the brine is first withdrawn into an open pot. A hydrometer graduated in 
thirty-seconds is then floated in the brine and the density noted; the tem¬ 
perature must also be noted by placing a thermometer in the brine. The 
density thus found must then be corrected to a temperature of 200° F., 
and to perform the correction the curves shown in fig. 115 may be used. 
As an example, let the density and temperature of the brine as withdrawn 
from an evaporator be 3J/32 and no° F. respectively. From the intersec¬ 
tion of the no° F. horizontal and the 3J vertical on the chart travel up 
the curve to the top horizontal, and read the density corrected to 200° F. 
as 2J/32. 

MULTIPLE EFFECT EVAPORATORS 

In the multiple effect evaporator we have two or more evaporators 
in series, known as the first, second, third, &c., effects. The vapour from 
the first passes to the heating coils of the second and thus becomes the 
heating steam for the second, and the vapour from the second passes to the 
heating coils of the third, and so on for any number of effects. The same 




EVAPORATORS 


227 


process is adopted for the coil drains, i.e. the coil drain from the first effect 
passes to the heating coils of the second effect, and the coil drain from the 
second effect passes to the heating coils of the third effect, and so on. The 
same process is also adopted for the entering feed water. All the feed water 
enters the first effect, a portion is evaporated and the remainder passes 
to the second effect where a portion is evaporated and the remainder passes 
to the third effect, and so on. Feed heaters are generally placed in the vapour 
pipes between the effects, and the feed water is passed through these and 
progressively heated from the last to the first effects. The arrangement 
is an efficient one, the efficiency increasing with the number of effects; 
the first cost of the installation, however, also increases with the number 
of effects. For power station work the number of effects seldom exceeds 



three. The comparative ratios of the amount of fresh water produced per 
pound of steam used for single, double, and triple effects may be taken 


as follows: SingleEffect 


Double Effect Triple Effect 


o-8 


172 


2. 


Let fig. 116 represent in diagrammatic form a double-effect evaporating 
plant. 

Let P 0 be the entering steam pressure in pounds per square inch; 

t 0 , the entering steam temperature in pounds per square inch (satu¬ 
rated); 

P 1? the shell pressure in the first effect; 
h> the shell temperature in the first effect; 

P 2 , the shell pressure in the second effect; 
t 2 , the shell temperature in the second effect; 
t z , the inlet temperature of the feed water; 

4, the outlet temperature of the feed water from first heater; 
t y , the outlet temperature of the feed water from the second heater; 
w 0 , the weight of steam entering the first effect heating coils in 
pounds per hour; 









228 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


w ly the weight of vapour produced in the first effect in pounds per 
hour; 

zo 10 , the weight of vapour entering the heating coils of the second 
effect in pounds per hour; 

w 2j the weight of vapour produced in the second effect in pounds 
per hour; 

W, the total weight of vapour produced, i.e. (w 1 -f- 
L 0 , the latent heat of the steam at pressure P 0 ; 

L l9 the latent heat of the vapour at pressure P x ; 

L 2 , the latent heat of the vapour at pressure P 2 ; and 
zv F , the quantity of feed water in pounds per hour 

We shall assume in what follows that the steam which is condensed 
in the coils is just condensed, that is, the drain from the coils is at steam 
temperature, and that there is no radiation loss. Then the quantity of heat 
which flows across the coil surface in the first effect is 

w 0 X L 0 . 

This quantity of heat is absorbed by the entering feed water in raising 
its temperature from t y to t x and in evaporating the quantity w ly and is 

Mh - h) + W 1 L 1- 

/. w 0 L 0 = w F {t x - t y ) + w 1 L x . 

This equation may be called the heat exchange equation in the first 
effect, and may be written thus 

Wi = {k) 0 L 0 — w F (t t — .(108) 

A similar equation may be worked out for the second effect. 

The weight of vapour entering the heating coils of the second effect 


is less the vapour condensed in the second heater. 

The heat exchange equation for the second heater is 

Oi - K’ 10 )L 1 = W Y (ty - t x ), 

or w w = w 1 - {w ¥ {ty - y}/L x .(109) 

The heat transference in the second effect is composed of the heat given 
up by the condensation of lb. of steam and the cooling of lb. of drain 
from the first effect from t 0 to t ly and is therefore 

WioLj + w 0 (t 0 —tj) .(no) 

This transference of heat will give an evaporation of w 20 lb. of vapour, 
so that the heat exchange equation for the second effect will be 

o> 10 L 2 -f w 0 (t 0 - tj = w 20 L 2 ,.(hi) 

or w 20 = {w 10 L 2 + w 0 (t 0 - #i)}/L a .(112) 








EVAPORATORS 


229 


The feed water entering the second effect is at a temperature t x which 
is higher than t 2 , so that a portion of the entering feed will flash into steam; 
this is sometimes spoken of as self evaporation. The quantity of steam 
thus evaporated is 

W 40 = {(«* “ *°lX4 — 4) I / L 2.(H3) 

The total vapour in the second effect is w 2> 
w 2 = w 20 + w i0 , 

= [{®10 L 2 + w 0 (t 0 - h) } /L 2 ] + - W|)(4 - 4)}/L 2 ]. 

The production efficiency is 

= weight of vapour produced/weight of steam used 
= + w 2 \lw 0 

= [{^o L o - «>f(4 - 4)1 /(Li»o)] 

+ [{«’lO L 2+«>0 (4—4)+(«>f—«> i)(4— 4 )}/L a w 0 ] — ( 114 ) 

Now w 10 = w x — [>p (4 — 4 )}/Li]» 
and w x = > 0 L 0 - a ’ F (4 —^,)} /L x , 

w io ^ [{ w oLo w f( 4 — 4)}/^i] — [{ w f(4 — 4)}/LJ- 

Then, substituting these values for w 10 and w ± in equation (i 14), it becomes 
on reduction 

= [(2/L1) { WoL 0 — w F (t x -t y ) }-w F (t y —t x )]+[{w 0 (t 0 -t 1 )+w F (t 1 —t 2 )} /L 2 ] 
-[(4 - 4 )/L 2 ] [{h^o - wpffi - 4)} /(LiL 2 )]..(115) 

Example .—A double effect evaporating plant has a first effect shell 
pressure of 5 lb. per square inch gauge, and a second effect shell pressure 
of 5 in. Hg vacuum. The steam supply pressure is 20 lb. per square inch 
gauge. The feed water entering the first effect is at a temperature of 190° F., 
and the temperature rise in the second heater is 90° F. The quantity of 
feed entering the first effect is equal to the steam entering the first effect. 
Calculate the production efficiency. 

From equation (115) we have 

Production efficiency 

= [(2 /Lj) { w^ 0 -w F (t x -t y ) } — w F (t y - *«)]+[{ 4)+»f(* 1 - 4 )} /LJ 

— [(4 — 4)/LJ [HLo w 'f( 4 4) t IQ'J'i)]- 

Now Wq — 1. 

L 0 is the latent heat of entering steam at 20 lb. per square inch gauge 
pressure, i.e. 940 B.Th.U. 

Wp — 1. (Since the feed water equals the steam used.) 
t ± is the temperature corresponding to 5 lb. per square inch gauge, 
i.e. 228° F. 

t y is the temperature of entering feed water, i.e. 190° F. 





230 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


t x is the temperature of feed water entering the second heater, i.e. 
(190 — 90) = ioo° F. 

t 0 is the steam temperature corresponding to pressure of entering 
steam, i.e. 259 0 F. 

t 2 is the vapour temperature in second effect, or temperature 
corresponding to 5 in. Hg vacuum, i.e. 203° F. 

Lo is the latent heat of vapour in second effect at c in. Hg vacuum, 
i.e. 976 B.Th.U. 

Ljl is the latent heat of vapour in first effect at 5 lb. per square 
inch gauge, or 960*5 B.Th.U. 

Then, substituting these numerical values in the production efficiency 
equation, we get 

Production efficiency 

= [(2/960*5)^940 — (228 — 190)!- — (190 — 100)] 

+ [|( 2 59 - 228) + (228 - 203) 1/976] 

— [(228 - 203)/976][{940 - (228 — i 9 °)}/( 9 6o ’5 X 976)] 

= 1*69 + °‘°574 — 0*00002 
= x ‘ 75 * 

HEATING SURFACES TO BE PROVIDED IN 
MULTIPLE EFFECT EVAPORATORS 

The curve given in fig. 108 shows that the coefficient of heat trans¬ 
mission or the heat transmission rate varies with the shell pressure. The 
allowable rate, therefore, will be different for each effect. When a multiple 
effect evaporator is working the various shell pressures adjust themselves, so 
that the transmission rate in each effect is the maximum for the conditions. 
From considerations of manufacture it is generally the practice to make the 
heating surface of each effect the same. 

Let R x be the transmission rate in the first effect; 

R 2 , the transmission rate in the second effect; 

S x , the heating surface in the first effect; 

S 2 , the heating surface in the second effect; 

H R1 , the heat transference in first effect in B.Th.U. per hour; and 
H R2 , the heat transference in second effect in B.Th.U. per hour. 


Then S, = tWRA),...(116) 

and S 2 = H R2 /(R 2 0 2 ),.(117) 


where 0 ± and 0 2 are the temperature differences in the first and second 
effects respectively. 

If Sx is to be equal to S 2 , 

then H m /(RA) = H R2 /(R 2 0 2 ), 

or H^/Hh, = RA/(RA)- 


(118) 






EVAPORATORS 


231 


Now H R1 = — * y ),.(119) 

and H R2 — ro 2 L 2 — (5% — (f x — t 2 ) .(120) 


Then, substituting these values of H R1 and H R2 in equation (118), we get 
{w^L 1 -\-w F {t 1 -t y )}l{w^ z ~(w ¥ -w^t x -t^} = RA/(R 2 0 2 )...(i 2 i) 

It is general practice and is sufficiently near for practical purposes to 
assume values for 0 X and 0 2 , by dividing the total temperature drop from 
the steam inlet temperature to the vapour outlet temperature from the last 


effect, and dividing this drop equally among the effects. 

For a double effect then 9 1 will equal 6 2 or 6 X = 6 2 = (t 0 — t 2 )/ 2. 

This fixes the shell temperatures and pressures, and R x and R 2 may be 
found from fig. 108 for the corresponding shell pressure. This leaves w 1 
and w 2 unknown in equation (121). The total production of the plant is 

W = (w 1 + w 2 ) .(122) 


w x and w 2 can therefore be found from these two equations, (121) and 
(122). When < w 1 and w 2 are found the heat flows H R1 and H R2 can be found 
and the surface S x or S 2 found from equation (116) or (117). 



Example .—A double-effect evaporating plant is to produce 100 tons 
per 24 hours of fresh water from sea water, which enters the first effect at 
150° F. The available steam pressure is 40 lb. per square inch absolute. 
The heating coils are of copper, and there are no feed heaters. Assuming 
that the temperature drop is equally divided between the two effects, 
estimate what the probable shell pressures will be, and find the necessary 
surface in each effect. 

Fig. 117 illustrates the plant. 

The total temperature range or drop from the supply steam tempera¬ 
ture to the temperature of the vapour leaving the second effect is 

(267-3 - 212) = 55-3° F. 















232 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


This temperature drop is divided equally between the two effects, so 

that h = 267-3 - 55-3/2 

= 267-3 — 27-65 
= 239-65° F. 

The pressure corresponding to this temperature is 25 lb. per square inch 
absolute. 

The shell pressures in the first and second effects will therefore be 
25 and 14*7 lb. per square inch respectively. 

From fig. 108 we get for these shell pressures 25 and 14*7 lb. per square 
inch, R x = 1250 and R 2 = 1030 B.Th.U. respectively. 

Then R^ = 1250 X 27-65 

= 34.562, 

and R 2 0 2 = 1030 X 27-65 
^ 28,479. 

Now H R1 = w 1 L 1 + — t y ). 

The feed water being sea water the quantity of feed entering the evapo¬ 
rator w F will be IW to keep the density under 3/32. 

Also H R2 = ^ 2 L 2 — (w F — w,) (f x — t 2 ) 

= w 2 L 2 — (fW — zv x ) (t x — £ 2 ). 

Then from equation (121) we have 

K L i + mh -ty)}/ - (fW - to,) (t x -t 2 )\ = RA/(RA)- 

By substitution in this equation we get 

K x 925 + {3 x 100 x 2240/(24 x 2)) (239-65 - 150)] 

-T- [zv 2 X 970-4 — {3 X IOO X 2240/(24 X 2) — ^1(239-65 — 212)] 

= (1250 x 27-65)/(i030 x 27-65); 

or (9250^ -f 14,000 x 89-65)/{970-4w 2 — (14,000 — ^1)27-65} = 1-213, 

891-56^ — 1177^2 = — 1,724,652, 
and zv, -R zv 2 = 100 X 2240/24 

= 9333 - 

Therefore 891-56(9333 — w 2 ) — 1177 zv 2 = — 1,724,652, 
i.e. — 2068-56^2 = — 10,045,221, 

zv 2 = 5000 lb. per hour. 

And zv, = 9333 - 5000 

= 4333 lb - P er hour - 

Hr, = zv, L, + fWfo — ty) 

= 4333 X 891-56 + f X 9333(239-65 ~ 15 °) 

= 5,120,184 B.Th.U. per hour. 


Now 



EVAPORATORS 


233 


And S x = H R1 /(RA) 

= 5,120,184/34,562 
= 148 sq. ft. 

Again H R2 = to 2 L 2 — (fW — zoj) (t x — t 2 ) 

= 5 000 X 970-4 - (| X 9333 — 4333) (239-65 — 212) 
= 4,792,111 B.'T'h.U. per hour. 

And S 2 = H R2 /(R 2 i 9 2 ) 

= 4.792,111/28,479 
= 168 sq. ft. 


Example .—A sea-water, double effect evaporating plant, fig. 118, is 
supplied with saturated steam at 20 lb. per square inch gauge. The first 
effect shell is under a vacuum of 10 in. Hg, and the second effect is under a 


120* F 85”?. 



Fig. I 18 


vacuum of 26 in. Hg. The feed water enters the first feed heater at 50° F. 
and has its temperature increased 35 0 F. in each heater. The heating 
surface is 250 sq. ft. in each effect made up of copper tube coils, having 
a thickness of 10 S.W.G. Calculate the output from each effect, and find 
the production efficiency. 

The feed water entering the evaporator will be 

w ¥ = fW, 

or zv F = | (w 1 + w 2 ), 

0i = 259 - 192 
= 67° F.; 

R x = 790 B.Th.U. 

0 2 = 192 — 126 
= 66° F.; 

R2 = 350 B.Th.U. 


and from fig. 108 
Now 

and from fig. 108 








234 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


The total transference of heat in the first effect H R1 is, from equation (i 19), 


and from equation (116) 


H R1 — %L 1 -(- fW(t x — 


Si = h r 1 /(RA); 

%:l x + |W(t 1 — t y ) = s t RA, 
or 982% + |W(i92 — 120) = 250 x 790 X 67, 
i.e. 9820^ + 108W == 13,230,000. 

Now W = w 1 + 

982 w x + 108^ + 108 zu 2 = 13,230,000, 
or 1090^+108^2 = 13,230,000. 




( J 23) 


Again the total transference of heat in the second effect is found from 
equation (■*»): Hr! = ^ ^ ^ _ y, 

or %L 2 — (% — %) (t x — t 2 ) — S 2 R 2 0 2 , 

1021% — (fW — %) (192 — 126) = 250 X 350 X 66, 

1021% — 99W •-{- 66% = 5,77,000, 
or, since W = % + %, 

1021% ~ 99% ~ 99% + 66% = 5,770,000, 

922% — 33% = 5,770,000.(124) 

Then equations (123) and (124) are 

1090% + 108% = 13,230,000 1 

— 33% + 9 2 2 % = 5. 77°> 000 J 


Solving these simultaneous equations we get 

% + 0-992% = 12,137 
— % + 27-9 % = 175,000 

28-892% = 187,137 

% = 6477 lb. per hour, 
and % = 12,137 — 0-992 X 6477 
= 5712 lb. per hour. 

The total production or output will then be 

W = 6477 + 5712 

= 12,189 lb. per hour, 
or = 12,189 X 24/2240 

= 130-6 tons per 24 hr. 


The steam used in the coils of the first effect is %, and the heat given 
up is %L 0 . This equals the heat transference, 





EVAPORATORS 


235 


or WqL 0 = w ] L 1 + |W(4 - t y ), 

or w o = 157 ™ X 982 + f x 12,137(192 - 120) 1/940 
= (5,610,000 + i,3io,8oo)/94o 
= 7360 lb. per hour, 

and the production efficiency will be 
= 12,189/7360 
= 1*656. 

PRACHE AND BOUILLON EVAPORATOR 

This evaporator is of French origin and is manufactured in this country 
by Messrs. P. & B. Evaporators, Ltd., London. The scheme of evapora¬ 
tion embodies the method of the compression of a portion of the vapour from 
the evaporator into the heating coils, by the live steam supply entering 
the heating coils or chamber. This 
method of compressing a portion of 
the vapour into the heating chamber is 
by no means new, as apparently it was 
first suggested in the year 1830. Various 
methods of compression have been 
tried, including piston-compressors, 
turbo-compressors, and steam-jet com¬ 
pressors. These methods did not meet 
with a great measure of success until 
Prache and Bouillon in conjunction with 
Sautter Harle, engineers, Paris, studied 
the steam-jet compression method afresh. 

After many years of experimental work, 
they finally evolved what they termed 
the thermo-compressor shown in fig. 119. 

This thermo-compressor has an effi¬ 
ciency much in advance of that ob¬ 
tained with piston or turbo-compressors 
or injector compressors, and is the 
secret of the high production efficiency Fig ' II9 - p ^ e pr ^ot umonThermo * 
obtained with these plants. 

Production efficiency here is taken to mean the ratio between the weight of 
pure water made to the weight of the live steam used. The gain in efficiency 
is claimed to be 30 per cent over the piston compressor, and 22 per 
cent over the turbo-compressor. Fig. 120 shows in diagrammatic form 
a single effect, P. & B. evaporating plant for the production of pure water. 
J and H are surface heaters or heat exchangers, as they are called, and 
comprise a large number of small diameter straight tubes attached to tube 
plates and arranged , inside a casing. L is a large ebullition chamber, and 









236 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


N is a return pipe. P is a propeller driven by an electric motor, and functions 
to cause a circulation of the raw water being evaporated; the water cir¬ 
culates up the inside of the tubes of the heat exchanger J, where it 
receives heat from the steam entering from the thermo-compressor A 
and flows over the outside of the tubes. The heated water then enters 
the ebullition chamber L, where the vapour escapes upwards, and the 
water falls to the return pipe N to be recirculated by the propeller P. 
A continuous circulation therefore is set up round the heat exchanger J, 
ebullition chamber L, and return pipe N. The pressure and tempera¬ 
ture in the heat exchanger J are so arranged that boiling does not take 
place at the heating surfaces but only heating of the water. When 
the water rises into the ebullition chamber, the reduction in pressure conse¬ 
quent on the reduced head 
causes ebullition, so that self 
evaporation takes place, and 
the released vapour passes up¬ 
wards and out by the vapour 
pipe B, while the unevapo¬ 
rated water falls to be recir¬ 
culated. By this arrangement 
and the fact that the speed of 
circulation is maintained over 
the critical, so that turbulent 
flow is maintained in the 
tubes, precipitation or the for¬ 
mation of scale does not take 
place inside the tubes. In 
cases of extremely bad or 
heavy scaling waters, a small quantity of abrasive material, such as sand, is 
circulated with the water, so that any scale which may form is removed. If 
the correct proportion of abrasive is used, it is claimed that no wear in the 
tubes takes place. The vapour leaving the ebullition chamber by the 
pipe B is divided, one portion passes by the pipe C to the feed heaters H, 
the other portion by the pipe D to the thermo-compressor A. Live steam 
enters the thermo-compressor by the pipe E; the live steam passes a 
convergent-divergent nozzle of peculiar shape, and entrains and elevates in 
pressure and temperature the vapour passing down the pipe D. The 
entrained vapour, together with the steam used in the thermo-compressor, 
is discharged by the latter to the heat exchanger J. 

The feed heaters H are of similar construction to the heat exchanger J, 
that is, they comprise tube nests arranged inside a casing. The propeller 
P x creates an internal circulation as indicated by the arrows. The vapour 
flowing through the pipe C enters the left-hand feed heater and, flowing 
downwards outside of the tubes, is partially condensed. The condensate, 
together with the condensate from the heat exchanger J, passes across by 
the pipe F to the right-hand heater, and the uncondensed vapour rising 



Fig. 120.—Single Effect, P. & B. Evaporating Plant 




EVAPORATORS 


237 


upwards through the right-hand heater is condensed therein; the conden¬ 
sate falls to the bottom and passes out by the pipe G, together with the 
condensate from J and the left-hand heater. M is a vent for any surplus 
vapour. The raw water to be treated enters the feed heater at O, and after 
being heated is withdrawn at R and passes to a decanting vessel x, there¬ 
after it passes to the heat exchanger J by the pipe S, and enters the general 
circulation in J and N. 

These evaporators are designed for very low temperature differences, 
the difference being normally about 18 0 F., and the evaporation taking 
place at atmospheric pressure. 

The approximate thermal conditions which would obtain in a simple 
plant, such as is shown in fig. 120, are as follows. About 175 lb. of vapour 
from D would be entrained and raised in pressure and temperature from 
atmospheric pressure and 212 0 F. to 20 lb. per square inch absolute 
and 228° F. respectively, for every pound of live steam used in the 
thermo - compressor. There would thus enter the heat exchanger J 
275 lb. of steam at 20 lb. per square inch absolute and 228° F.; 
an equivalent quantity of water would be evaporated in L giving nearly 
275 lb. 275 lb of vapour therefore will flow through the pipe B, 175 lb. 
passing down pipe D, and 1 lb. passing by pipe C to the feed heaters H. 
The total water leaving the apparatus will be 1 lb. leaving at G and coming 
from pipe C, plus 275 lb. leaving at G and coming from the heat exchanger 
J, or a total of 375 lb. Of this 375 lb. 1 lb. will enter the thermo-compressor 
at E as live steam, the total made water therefore is 375 — 1, or 275 lb. 
for an expenditure of 1 lb. of live steam. 

The production of fresh water actually obtained in test by these 
evaporators per pound of steam used is: 


For a simple effect 
For a double effect 
For a triple effect 
For a quadruple effect .. 


3 lb- 
5 lb. 

7 lb. 

8 lb. 


The temperature of the feed water in each case being 6o H F. 



CHAPTER X 


Surface Feed Water Heaters 

Surface feed water heaters may be divided into two classes: high-pres¬ 
sure heaters and low-pressure heaters. The high-pressure heater is so 
named because it is placed on the discharge side of the boiler feed pump, 
and is therefore subjected on its water side to at least the boiler pressure. 
This type of heater is generally found on board ship. The low-pressure 
heater is placed on the discharge side of the water-extraction pump, so that 
the heater is only subjected on its water side to the water-extraction pump 
discharge pressure, which normally is from 5 to 10 lb. per square inch for 
open feed water systems. This type of heater is generally found on land 
installations. 

The main reason for the difference between the marine and land prac¬ 
tice, for the disposition of the feed water heater, is because land power 
stations are universally fitted with economizers, whereas in marine practice 
the economizer is the exception rather than the rule. For every power 
plant there is a most economical feed temperature, which depends among 
other factors upon whether economizers are fitted or not. If no economizer 
be fitted, the economical feed temperature for boiler pressures between 
225 and 250 lb. per square inch is about 220° F., whereas, if an economizer 
be fitted, the economical feed temperature is about 160 0 F. 

With the former arrangement, i.e. no economizers, and the heater placed 
on the discharge of the water-extraction pump, the feed water being the 
discharge from the heater into the feed tank it would be at a temperature 
of 220° F., and would instantly boil on entering the feed tank. This would 
cause hammer in the feed pumps, due to vaporization in the feed pump 
suction, unless the feed tank be placed in an elevated position. This is not 
always convenient on board ship, and is decidedly bad practice in naval 
vessels; also owing to the steaming which will take place in the feed tank, 
a large loss of feed water will result. If displacement air pumps are fitted 
these do not work smoothly nor efficiently when discharging against a head, 
and the air discharged by the air pump must be released before the water 
is discharged to the heater. This means the fitting of a hotwell pump to 
deliver the water through the heater to the main feed tank. For these reasons 
the surface feed water heater is placed on the discharge side of the boiler 
feed pump, on installations which have no economizers fitted to the boilers 
and which have the feed system arranged on the open principle (see p. 248). 
On land installations with economizers these difficulties do not arise, owing 
to the lower feed temperature, so that the feed heater placed on the 

238 



SURFACE FEED WATER HEATERS 


239 


discharge side of the water-extraction pump gives good results. The 
low-pressure heater has a great advantage over the high-pressure, because 
its pressure is lower; also the heater is lighter, less costly and easier to 
manufacture; it is also more reliable, as with a well-made low-pressure 
heater troubles due to burst tubes or leaky joints are very remote. With 
some large modern power stations, which have high boiler pressures, the 
feed heating is carried out in stages, the heating steam being drawn from 
various expansion stages of the turbine. Some of these heaters are placed 
between the water-extraction pump and the feed tank according to the 
temperature and pressure conditions, and some between the boiler feed 
pump and the economizer, so that some are low-pressure heaters and 
some are high-pressure heaters. 

NECESSARY SURFACE IN FEED WATER HEATERS 

The surface of a feed water heater depends on the pressure and tem¬ 
perature of the steam supply; the inlet and outlet temperature of the water 
supply, upon the allowable heat flow across the tube surface, and the water 
velocity through the tube. Fig. 121 represents one tube of a surface heater. 



Let T x be the inlet temperature of the feed water in degrees F.; 

T 2 , the outlet temperature of the feed water in degrees F.; 

P, the steam supply pressure in pounds per square inch absolute; 
t ly the steam supply temperature in degrees F.; 

? 2 , the drain temperature in degrees F.; 

S, the surface in square feet; 

R, the resistance to heat flow; 

L, the latent heat in the steam per pound; 
q y the dryness fraction; 

W, the weight of steam condensed in pounds per hour; 

G, the quantity of feed passing in gallons per minute; 
v y the water velocity in the tube in feet per second; 
w y the weight of steam condensed in pounds per hour per square 
foot of surface; 

W„„ the weight of water passing in pounds per hour; and 
TR, the transmission rate in B.Th.U. per hour per square foot per 
degree F. 



240 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


The resistance to heat flow, R, depends upon the mean temperature 
of water and its velocity, and upon the material and thickness of the tube 
wall. It also depends upon the degree of aeration of the entering feed water. 
If the feed water entering the heater be highly aerated, the heating at first 
proceeds slowly; this is due to the fact that the air held in solution in the 
water is given off very slowly up to a temperature of 176° F., when there¬ 
after the air is given off freely. The air liberated at temperatures below 
176° F. seems to have the property of adhering to the tube surface, thus 
forming a thin film which acts as an insulator and prevents the free flow 
of heat from the tube wall to the water. At temperatures above 176° F. 
the freely liberated air is easily brushed off the interior of the tube, by the 
rapidly moving water, and the heat flow takes place readily. This can be 
roughly demonstrated if a beaker be filled with water, highly aerated, drawn 
from a household tap. If the beaker be placed over a bunsen flame and 
a thermometer suspended in the water, it will be noticed that as the temper¬ 
ature rises to 176° F., the water remains quite clear; at 176° F. the appear¬ 
ance of the water suddenly changes and becomes quite milky, indicating 
the sudden liberation of the air; this milky appearance gradually disappears 
as the temperature of the water approaches boiling-point, showing that 
the liberation at boiling-point is complete. 

For surface feed water heaters heating the condensate from a turbine, 
the aeration of the condensate is not sufficiently high for the above pheno¬ 
menon to be of any practical importance and may be neglected. 

Assuming this to be the case, then the laws pertaining to the heat flow 
in surface feed water heaters will be similar to those given for steam condensers 
(see pp. 7 to 10). 

The resistance to heat flow is given by 

R = (1000 X 9 m )l(wqL) .(125) 

As before, R is made up of the three resistances, R a , R„ and R^. 
i.e. R = R a + R f + R w . 

Many heaters of low-pressure design are fitted with ordinary condenser 
tubes, and in such cases the numerical values of the above resistances will 
be the same as those given for steam condensers. For high-pressure heaters 
the tubes are usually of copper having a wall thickness about 10 S.W.G., and 
for such heaters the numerical values of the resistances are different from 
those already given. 

The value of R t can be found as follows: 

The absolute conductivity of copper may be taken as 0*00285 B.Th.U. 
per second per 1 in. cube per degree Fahrenheit difference. 

Now we know that 

^ _ temperature difference 
1 heat flow 




SURFACE FEED WATER HEATERS 


241 

and, as before, increasing the unit of resistance 1000 times we get for tubes 
A in. thick 

£ __ IX 1000 

1 0*00285 x 144 x 3600 x 8 

= 0*084. 

The numerical values of R w may be found from the equation 

R w = C/t^», 

where C is a constant found from fig. 122 at the average temperature of the 
feed water passing through the heater. The numerical value of R a depends, 



as in steam condensers, on the proper air drainage arrangements and on the 
conditions under which the heater is operating; if the heater is supplied 
with exhaust steam which contains oil or grease from reciprocating auxiliaries, 
this is deposited on the heating surface and impairs the heat flow, and an 
allowance should be made for this. If the water passing through the tubes 
contains salts which are likely to be deposited on the tubes, an allowance 
should also be made for this. Generally R a varies from 0*5 to i-i. 

The action going on in a surface feed heater is that of a heat exchange so 
that the heat given up by the steam is equal to the heat taken up by the 
water, therefore by equation (16), see p. 16, we have 

G = {W(gL + ty — t 2 )} I {600 (T 2 — Tj)} gall, per minute. 

(D 450 ) 16 

























242 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


Example 1.—A surface feed water heater is to raise 100,000 lb. of feed 
water per hour from 8o° to 140° F. when supplied with steam at an absolute 
pressure of 20 lb. per square inch. The temperature of the drain from the 
steam space is 200° F. Calculate the quantity of steam necessary, allowing 
5 per cent of the heat supplied as lost in radiation. The dryness fraction of 
the steam is 0*95. 

From equation (16) and taking 95 per cent of the heat supplied as being 
absorbed by the feed water we have 

100,000/60 = [W{(°‘95 X 960*5) + (228 — 200)}] / [600(140 — 80)0*95, 
or W = 100,000 X 60 X °' 95 / 94°'5 
= 6060 lb. per hour. 


Example 2.—A surface feed water heater is to heat 75,000 lb. of feed water 
from 75 0 to 200° F. when supplied with exhaust steam at a pressure of 
5 lb. per square inch gauge, having a total heat content of 1100 B.Th.U. 
per pound reckoned from 32 0 F. Assuming that the drain water leaves 
the heater at steam temperature, calculate the surface necessary. The tubes 
are of copper ij in. bore, 10 S.W.G. thick, and the water velocity is 5 ft. 
per second. 

The total heat content is 1100 B.Th.U. per pound reckoned from 32 0 F., 
therefore the heat available for feed heating per pound of steam in con¬ 
densing and draining off at the temperature corresponding to 5 lb. per square 
inch gauge or 228° F. is 

heat available = 1100 — (228 — 32) 

= 904 B.Th.U. 
or qL = 904. 


Now R — R* + R* + R w . 

Taking R a = o*8 

and R t = 0*084 

and R w = C/v 082 . 


From fig. 122, C = 2*96 for the average temperature of 


(75 + 200 )fz = 137-5° F - 
and v °' 82 = antilog of (0*82 log5) 

= antilog of 0*82 X 0*699 
= antilog of 0*573 


= 3 743 * 

•*• R w = 2-96/3-743 = 0-791. 
R = o-8 + 0-084 + 0-791 

= i*675- 



SURFACE FEED WATER HEATERS 


243 


The transmission rate TR will therefore be 

TR = qL/R 
= 904 /I- 67 S 

= 539*7 B.Th.U. per hour per square 
foot per degree F. 

From equation (8), p. 4, the mean temperature difference is 

@m ~ (6l ^2) / { 2 '3 ^ O gl0^l/^2} 

e 1 = 228 — 75 

= 153 

0 2 — 228 — 200 
= 28. 

Hence 0 m = 125/ {2-3 log 10 153 / 28} 

= 125/2-3 X 0-738 
= 125/1-696 
= 73 - 7 ° F- 

The surface necessary will therefore be 

S = 75,000 (200 - 75) / 73-7 X 5397 
= 236-2 sq. ft. 

Example 3 .—A surface feed water heater, having 300 sq. ft. surface 
and fitted on a passenger mail boat, raised 120,000 lb. of feed water from 
90° F. to 220° F., when the steam pressure in the shell was 25 lb. per square 
inch gauge and the temperature of the drain 230° F. The heater was situated 
on the discharge side of the boiler feed pump, and was fitted with i|-in. 
bore copper tubes, 10 S.W.G. thick. Calculate the heat flow across the 
tube surface per degree F. of mean temperature difference per hour per 
square foot, and hence deduce the sum of the resistances (R fl + R*). 
The tube velocity was 8 ft. per second. 

The steam temperature corresponding to 25 lb. per square inch gauge 
is 267° F. 

The mean temperature is 

K = (01 - 0 2 )/{ 2-3 logio 0 i/ 0 *} 

= {(230 — 90) — (267 — 220)}/{2-3 logio(230 — 90^267 — 220} 

= 93 /( 2-3 X 0-474) 

= 85 - 3 ° F. 

The heat flow per square foot of surface per degree F. of mean tem¬ 
perature difference per hour 

= total heat flow/( 0 m X surface) 

= 120,000(220 — 9o)/(85'3 x 300) 

= 609 B.Th.U. 

Again R a + R, + R«, = 1000 X 6 m /(wqL), 

or (R„ + R, + RJ/1000 = OJ(wqL). 



244 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


Inverting this equation we get 

IOOO/(R a + R, + RJ = WqLIOrm 
or iooo/(R a + Rf + R^;) — W#L/(0 m S). 

The right-hand side of this equation is the heat flow per square foot 
of surface per degree F. of mean temperature difference per hour. 

iooo jR a + R* + RJ = 609. 

Now R w = C/v° 82 
= 3-2/8° 82 

= 3‘ 2 /5’5 

= 0-582. 

Then, substituting this value of R w in the above equation, we get 

iooo/(R a + R* + 0-582) = 609, 

or R a + R t = (1000/609) — 0-582 
= 1*642 — 0*582 
= 1*06. 


SURFACE FEED HEATERS FITTED WITH 
STEEL TUBES 

For feed heaters fitted with steel tubes the resistance to heat flow across 
the tube wall R t is greatly increased, and for equal duties the steel-tube 
heater is much larger than the copper-tube heater. 

The following values of R* may be taken: 3-5 for tubes 10 S.W.G. thick, 
and 1*75 for tubes 16 S.W.G. thick. 

SUPERHEATED STEAM IN SURFACE FEED HEATERS 

When superheated steam is supplied to surface heaters, the film 
of moisture which deposits on the steam side of the tube is at saturation 
temperature, otherwise the film could not exist as water. The temperature 
gradient across the tube wall will therefore be the same as if saturated 
steam had been supplied, and consequently the heat flow in unit time will 
be the same for the two qualities of steam. The surface necessary there¬ 
fore, for a given heat flow, is the same whether the supply steam be super¬ 
heated or saturated, and this is borne out in actual practice. The surface 
should be fixed up by calculating the mean temperature- difference for 
saturation temperature, and this value used in the equation deduced for 
saturated steam. 

The weight of superheated steam necessary to give a given temperature 
rise to the feed water should be found by taking the superheat into account. 
Thus if i s be the steam temperature, and y the specific heat of the steam, 
then the heat given up by the steam is 

W {y(t s — *i) + L + — Z 2 } i 



SURFACE FEED WATER HEATERS 


245 


and the heat absorbed by G gall, of feed water per minute is 

fooGCTj-T!). 

Equating these equal quantities of heat we get 

W \yifs — *1) + L + t x — t 2 ] — 6ooG(T 2 — T 2 ), 
or W = |6ooG(T 2 — Tj)}/— t x ) + L + h — £ 2 }... .(126) 

Example .—A stage feed water heater in a 30,000-kw. turbo-generator 
set is supplied with steam extracted from a stage of the main turbine, where 
the steam pressure is 45 lb. per square inch absolute, and the steam tem¬ 
perature is 3 io° F. The quantity of feed water passing through the heater 
is 290,000 lb. per hour, and it enters at a temperature of 150° F. Assuming 
that the steam is just condensed in the heater, calculate the quantity of 
steam which must be extracted from the turbine to give an outlet feed 
temperature from the heater of 250° F. and find the surface necessary. Take 
the specific heat of the steam as 0-55. The tubes are of copper ij in. bore 
and 10 S.W.G. thick, and the tube velocity is 7 ft. per second. 

The mean temperature is found from equation (8) (p. 4). 

8 ,n = (#1 - 02)1 { 2-3 1°'guA/0*} 

= {(274 - 15°) - (274 - 2 So)}/{ 2-3 log 10 (274 - i 5 o )/(274 - 250)} 
= 100/(2-3 X 0-714) 

= 6o-8° F. 

From equation (126) 

W = 6ooG(T 2 - T\)/{y(4 — /,) + L + h - t 2 } 

= 290,000(250 — i5o)/{o-55(3io — 274) 4- 928 + 274 — 274} 

= 290,000 X 100/947*8 
= 30,500 lb. per hour. 

From equation (125) we have 

R = 1000 X 6 m l(wqL). 

Now qL is the heat flow per pound of steam condensed, which for super¬ 
heated steam is , s , T « . 

VVs — *1) + L + t ± — t 2 , 

then, substituting this value for #L, equation (125) becomes 

R = 1000 x OJ[w{y(t s — t 1 ) + L + t 1 - t 2 }].(127) 

For copper tubes, io S.W.G. thick, = 0-084, and R a = o-8. 

To find R, ;: we have the average temperature of the feed water (150 + 
250) 1 2 = 200 0 F., and, from fig. 122, C for this temperature is 2-5. (Found 
by extending the curve for ij-in. bore tubes.) 

Then R„ = C/® 082 
= 2-5/7 0 ' 82 
= 2-5/4-92 




246 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


Now R — R a + R( + Rw 

= o-8 + 0-084 + 0-508 

= 1-392- 

Substituting these values in equation (127) we get 

1-392 = 1000 x 6o-8/[w{o-55(3io — 274) + 928 + 274 — 274}], 
or w = 1000 X 60*8/(1*392 X 947-8) 

= 46*1 lb. per square foot. 

The surface then will be 

= 3 0 > 5 °°/ 4 6-1 
= 66i*6 sq.ft. 

DIRECT-CONTACT FEED HEATERS 

The direct-contact feed water heater performs its function of heating 
feed water by the direct contact of the feed water with the heating steam. 
The action in these heaters is similar to that in a jet condenser, in that 

the feed water is sprayed into the heater 
so that complete co-mingling of the water 
and steam takes place. 

This type of heater has many advan¬ 
tages over the surface type, the chief 
one being that the temperature and pres¬ 
sure conditions can be so arranged that 
the feed water leaving the heater is de¬ 
aerated, and is thus rendered ideal for 
boiler feed purposes. 

The relation between the tempera¬ 
tures and quantities in this type of 
heater is the same as that deduced 
for jet condensers. (See equation (37), 
p. 78.) 

Fig. 123 shows a typical example of 
this type of heater, which has been applied 
to many ships of the mercantile marine. 

Fig. 123 •—Weir Direct-contact Feed-water J .. r o t 

Heater and Automatic Regulating Gear lhe heater illustrated IS 01 MeSSrS. Cr. OC J . 

Weir's manufacture. 

The heater is situated high up in the engine-room, and the feed water 
is pumped from the hotwell up to the heater inlet branch A; the . water 
leaves the heater by the branch C, and flows direct to the feed pump suction. 
The water entering at A passes thereafter through the spring-loaded spray 
valve D. The steam enters through the non-return, steam inlet valve B, 
and thereafter passes through the holes in the waist piece H and meets 
the feed water raining down from the holes in the plate J. The steam and 
feed water are thus well mixed, and the mass of feed water and condensed 







SURFACE FEED WATER HEATERS 


247 


steam falls to the bottom of the heater. E is an open float pan which oper¬ 
ates a steam regulating valve F; this regulating valve controls the steam 
to the feed pump, which is drawing from the heater, so that the water level 
in the heater is maintained constant under varying quantities of feed water 
being dealt with. The sudden release of pressure on the feed water passing 
through the spray valve, combined with the heating of the water, has 
the effect of releasing the air held in solution by the feed water. A 
special air collecting dome L is fitted with a cock K. A small pipe is led 
from this cock to the main condenser; the air which is released in the 
heater is thereby withdrawn to the main condenser, so that the temperature 
of the water leaving the heater is maintained at the temperature corre¬ 
sponding to the absolute pressure in the heater. This condition of 
temperature with corresponding pressure renders the water leaving the 
heater air free, and non-corrosive. (See pp. 249 and 250.) 

Since the water leaving the heater is hot, the heater must be placed 
at such an elevation that knocking in the feed pumps, if these be of the 
direct-acting type, is to be prevented, and if of the rotary type cutting out 
is to be prevented. The float E with regulating valve F ensures that the 
static head on the feed pump suction is maintained under all conditions 
of load, so that troubles due to knocking in the feed pumps are obviated. 
For a feed temperature of 200° to 220° F. these heaters are given an eleva¬ 
tion of about 40 ft. 

These heaters have been fitted to ships of the mercantile marine for 
the past thirty years; it is, however, only within recent years that their 
application to land installations has been adopted. This has been primarily 
brought about by the advent of the steel-tube economizer, which is par¬ 
ticularly susceptible to corrosion caused by dissolved air or oxygen in the 
feed water. 



CHAPTER XI 


Feed Systems 


The feed system in any power plant is usually reckoned to be the system 
through which the water goes from the time it leaves the condenser as con¬ 
densate till the time it arrives at the economizer or boiler as feed water. 
There are three main systems in use: first, the open system; second, the 

closed system; and, third, a 




combination of both. 

Fig. 124 shows, in dia¬ 
grammatic form, the open 
system, which until recent 
years was the one usually 
adopted. 

The water-extraction pump 
A withdraws the water of 
Fig. 124.—Open Feed System condensation from the con¬ 

denser C, and delivers it into 
the open feed tank B. The boiler feed pump D draws from the feed tank 
and delivers direct to the boilers. The feed tank B is open to the atmo¬ 
sphere, and the system derives its name from this fact. 

Fig. 125 shows, in diagrammatic form, the closed-feed system. 
t — = — =s The water-extraction pump A 

J \ withdraws the water of conden- 

jr Ss 'i sation from the condenser C, and 

( \ discharges direct to the suction 

l C ) of the boiler feed pump D, which 

V J | discharges direct to the econo- 

h mizers or boilers. It will be 
II I noticed that the condensate or 

feed water in this arrangement 
V ^~ does not come into contact with 

the atmosphere, and is thus 
Fig. 125 Closed Feed System given no opportunity to absorb 

air. The water flows through 

a closed feed line, and this fact gives the name “ closed ” to the system. 

The problem of corrosion in the boilers, economizers, and feed pipes, 
&c., has been receiving much attention within recent years, and many theories 
have been advanced to account for the action. 


Fig. 125—Closed Feed System 



FEED SYSTEMS 


249 


There is no one theory which is generally accepted to-day. Two broad 
theories have, however, developed, and opinions are divided as to which 
is the true one. The older or the so-called acid theory was summarized by 
Calvert in 1871. According to this theory oxygen and pure water cannot 
by themselves induce corrosion, the presence of an additional substance 
being necessary. This additional substance is taken to be carbonic acid, 
which is generally present when oxygen is present. The action may be 
summarized as follows: 

Carbonic acid in solution in water in the presence of iron is decomposed 
to ferrous carbonate, and nascent hydrogen is produced. The ferrous car¬ 
bonate is in turn decomposed and carbonic acid is liberated, and is thus 
free to attack more iron. The carbonic acid thus acts in the nature of a 
catalyst, and only a small quantity of carbonic acid is necessary to produce 
active corrosion. 

There are other substances which act catalytically, like carbonic acid, and 
promote corrosion. Sodium chloride, even when rendered slightly alkaline, 
will promote or stimulate the corrosion. 

The newer or modern view of corrosion was first suggested in 1903 by 
Whitney, and may be termed the electrolytic theory of corrosion. Whitney 
suggested that since water is an electrolyte it is split up to a small extent 
into hydrogen ions and hydroxyl ions, and that the presence of another 
substance to act as a catalyst is quite unnecessary. According to this theory 
some of the iron passes into solution in the ionic condition, and an equivalent 
amount of hydrogen is liberated at the surface of the metal. This liberated 
hydrogen is depolarized by the oxygen in solution in the water and 
more iron passes into solution. The action goes on till saturation is reached, 
when hydrated ferrous oxide, more or less oxidized to the ferric condition, 
precipitates out. A continual supply of oxygen therefore is necessary for 
the action to continue. 

Chemists tell us that the modern electrolytic theory is not sufficient to 
account for all the phenomena observed, and a modified or auxiliary theory 
has been brought forward by Dr. J. Newton Friend. According to this 
theory the slowly oxidized ferrous hydroxide is formed in the colloidal 
condition, which in the presence of air is oxidized to a higher oxide, still 
in the colloidal condition. This higher colloidal hydroxide catalytically 
accelerates the action, and when the colloid precipitates out, ordinary rust is 
formed. (See The Journal of the West of Scotland Iron and Steel 
Institute , February, 1924.) 

However near these theories may be to the truth, it is now generally 
accepted by engineers that, if the feed water used be pure distilled water, 
the corrosion, which is found to take place in the feed system, &c., is due to 
dissolved gases in the feed water, and all modern feed systems are designed 
with a view to the elimination of these gases. The dissolved gases found in 
the feed water are those of which the air is composed, namely, nitrogen, 
oxygen, and small percentages of carbon dioxide and free hydrogen. The 
gases responsible for the corrosion are the oxygen and the carbon dioxide; 



250 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


nitrogen, being an inert gas, plays no part in the corrosion. The absorption 
of these gases by water obeys Henry’s law for the solubility of gases. Henry’s 
law states that “ the volume of a gas absorbed by a liquid is directly propor¬ 
tional to the pressure of the gas ”. This means that, if the pressure of the 
gas be halved, the volume absorbed will be halved, the volume in each case 
being measured at 32 0 F. and 30 in. of mercury pressure. The coefficient of 
absorption first introduced by Bunsen is the volume of the gas measured 
at o° C. and 760 mm. which is absorbed by 1 c.c. of the liquid. For mixed 
gases, such as air, the solubility of the gases is proportional to their partial 
pressures, that is, if the partial pressure be reduced to zero, the solubility 
is reduced to zero and the liquid absorbs no gas. The closed feed system 
then depends for its efficiency, as regards the supplying of a gas-free feed 
water to the boilers, on the partial air pressure which obtains at the con¬ 
densate outlet in the condenser. In other words, the condensate leaving a 
steam condenser only contains absorbed air in proportion to the partial 
air pressure which obtains at the condensate outlet in the condenser. With 
good condensers, such as the regenerative condenser described on pp. 72 to 
74, which delivers the condensate at practically vacuum temperature, the 
air held in solution is sufficiently far reduced in quantity as to make the 
condensate quite suitable for passing through a closed feed system direct 
to the boilers, with an assurance of complete protection against active corrosion 
due to dissolved gases. 

The foregoing remarks give the essentials which led to the closed feed 
system apart from de-aeration plants. De-aeration plants are representative 
of the third system mentioned on p. 248, and will be referred to hereafter. 

Reverting to fig. 125 it will be realized that we have here two pumps, 
A and D, working in series and tied together hydraulically, so that the pump 
D can only deliver the quantity supplied to it by the pump A. If the pump 
A tends to deliver more water than is demanded by the pump D, the water 
will accumulate and rise up into the condenser C, thus causing flooding in 
the condenser C. If, on the other hand, the pump A delivers less than 
is demanded by the pump D, the pressure in the pipe between the pumps 
will fall, and the pump D will run under a condition of cavitation which will 
cause it to work erratically; and, if D be turbine driven, its speed would 
increase sufficiently for the trip governor to act and shut the steam valve, 
thus stopping the pump; while, if D be a direct-acting pump, severe hammer¬ 
ing would take place. A degree of flexibility must therefore be provided 
between pumps A and D, such that if A delivers more than is demanded by 
D the excess water will pass to the feed tank; while if A tends to deliver 
less water than is demanded by D, the deficiency will be drawn from the 
feed tank to the suction of A, and thereby enable it to deliver the quantity 
demanded by D. Various methods are adopted to allow for this flexibility 
to give a practical and smooth working to such systems. 



FEED SYSTEMS 


251 


WEIR CLOSED FEED SYSTEM 

The method adopted by Messrs. G. & J. Weir, Ltd., is shown 
diagrammatically in fig. 126. 

Two float-controlled valves E and F are provided, such that when the 
pump A is delivering more water than is demanded by the feed pump D, 
the valve F automatically opens and the excess water passes to the feed 
tank G, thus ensuring no flooding in the condenser C, and when the 
pump A tends to deliver less water than the pump D demands, the valve 
E opens and water is drawn up from the feed tank G into the condenser, 



thus making good the deficiency and enabling the pump A to supply 
the quantity demanded by D. The automatic operation of the valves F and 
E is performed by the hollow copper floats H and J; these floats are housed 
in a float box, which is connected top and bottom to the condenser C and 
the suction pipe of the pump A respectively, so that the water level in the 
float box is the same as that in the suction pipe K. These floats are set at 
different levels, and operate small pilot or leak-off valves, so that the 
opening or closing of these pilot valves opens or closes hydraulically the valves 
E and F. The top float H controls the valve F, which opens when the 
float rises; the bottom float J controls the valve E, which opens when 
the float falls. The automatic working of the system may now be under¬ 
stood. If the pump A tends to deliver more water than is being demanded 
by the pump D, the water level in the suction pipe K will rise, thus raising 
the float H; the pilot valve under the control of H will close, and the water 
pressure will build up along the small pipe L, which, being connected to 




252 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


the valve F, allows the pressure 
to build up on the top of the 
piston M, thus opening the 
valve against the spring N and 
allowing the excess water to 
pass to the feed tank G. Again, 
if the pump A tends to deliver 
less water than is demanded by 
the pump D, the water level in 
the suction pipe K will fall and 
the float J will also fall, thus 
opening the pilot valve under 
the control of this float. The 
float H will have meantime 
fallen and closed the valve F. 
The pressure along the control 
pipe O will consequently fall 
and relieve the water pressure 
on the top of the piston P, and 
allow the spring R to open the 
valve E. The vacuum in the 
condenser will then draw water 
from the feed tank G through 


ift 

rfn Jh rfh 



Fig. 128 



Fig. 127 


the pipe S and into the top of the con¬ 
denser. This water falls down through 
the condenser, and becomes de-aerated 
by the influence of the vacuum, and 
flows to the suction of the pump A, 
thus enabling A to deliver to D the 
quantity of water demanded by the 
latter. The operating water for these 
valves is taken from the discharge of 
the water-extraction pump A; the 
operating water for the valve F enters 
the control cylinder by a small hole 
drilled through the piston M, and the 
operating water for the valve E is led 
by the pipe T to the pilot valve under 
the control of the float J, and thence 
to the control cylinder of the valve E. 
Fig. 127 shows a section through the 





FEED SYSTEMS 


253 

valve F; fig. 128 shows a section through the valve E; and fig. 129 shows 
a section through the float control box. 

The above description gives the methods adopted to obtain the necessary 
flexibility between the pumps A and D; the difference in levels at which the 
floats H and J are set is normally 6 in., which difference has been found to 
give satisfactory working. With the above arrangement it should be noted 
that all make-up introduced into the system first passes through the main 
condenser, where it is de-aerated to the extent of the conditions prevailing 
in the condenser before the water is passed to the feed system. 

As adopted for ships of the mercantile marine the whole scheme of ejectors, 



feed heaters, &c., is shown in fig. 130. The float-controlled, automatic valves 
are shown at J and K; the float box is shown at R; B is the water-extraction 
pump; and H the main boiler feed pump; while H x is the auxiliary boiler 
feed pump which is generally of the direct-acting, steam-driven type. C is 
a drain cooler placed on the feed suction pipe between the water-extraction 
pump discharge and the boiler feed pump suction. 

The drain cooler is of the tubular type, the condensate discharged by 
the water-extraction pump passing through the inside of the tubes; while 
the drains from the main surface feed heater G and the after condenser of 
the air ejector E enter the underside of the drain cooler and flow upwards 
and in four passes to the top. The residual heat in these drains is there¬ 
fore absorbed by the condensate passing through the cooler. The drains 
leave the cooler by the branch S and pass to the sea-water circulated condenser 
D, where they are further cooled and thus rendered suitable for efficient 
filtration in the filter L. The drain from the surface heater G usually con- 
















FEED SYSTEMS 


255 


tains a large percentage of grease, due to the exhaust which enters the heater 
being exhaust from direct-acting or reciprocating auxiliary engines, which 
require oil for their cylinder lubrication. This drain must be properly 
cooled if the grease is to be efficiently extracted in the filter. The fore¬ 
going method is that adopted by Messrs. G. & J. Weir, Ltd. The condensate 
discharged by the water-extraction pump first passes through the after cooler 
of the air ejector E and absorbs the heat in the discharge from the second 
stage of the air ejector, the condensate then passes to the drain cooler. The 
inter-condenser, or the condenser which condenses the steam used in the 
first stage of the air ejector, is circulated with cold sea water taken from dis¬ 
charge of the main circulating pumps, the heat in the discharge steam from 
the first stage is therefore lost in the circulating water; this, however, is a 
small percentage of the total, being roughly 30 per cent of the heat used by 
the ejector. The arrangement is, however, necessary for marine duty, 
because the vacuum must be maintained when no condensate is being dis¬ 
charged by the water-extraction pump, a condition which obtains when the 
main turbines are stopped. It is very essential for the manoeuvrability of a 
ship that the full vacuum be maintained in the main condensers during 
manoeuvring, and the foregoing arrangement fulfils this essential. When 
the main turbines are stopped, no condensate is discharged through the 
after cooler, condensation in this cooler therefore ceases, and the steam dis¬ 
charged by the second stage ejector blows through the cooler and leaves by 
the discharge pipe U, which leads to the sea circulated condenser D. The 
steam is condensed and cooled therein, and thereafter passes to the feed 
tank N. Under running conditions only air and vapour pass along the pipe 
U from the air ejector, and enter the condenser D; the air is here de- 
vaporized and cooled, and escapes by the air escape pipe F. 

The arrangement shown in fig. 130 is that adopted when the system has 
to operate in conjunction with Scotch boilers, and the control of the boiler 
feed pumps is from the water level in the feed tank. Inside the feed tank a 
float V is fitted which operates a control valve W; this control valve W is 
hydraulically connected to a special non-return valve X on the main rotary 
feed pump discharge to the boilers. When the float falls the control valve 
W operates and progressively closes the discharge valve X. 

When the float rises the reverse action takes place, and the valve X is 
opened; the quantity of water fed to the boilers is thus automatically regu¬ 
lated by the water level in the feed tank. When the ship is under way the 
usual small supplementary feed supply from the reserve fresh-water tanks is 
opened to the main condenser and the losses made up thereby. The regu¬ 
lation of the auxiliary, or stand-by, direct-acting feed pump is obtained from 
the same float, the float in this case regulating a steam throttle cock which 
controls the steam supply to the pump; the throttle cock opens when the 
float rises, thus increasing the speed of the pump and vice versa when the 
float falls. This pump and control are only used when getting under way, or 
if the main feed pump breaks down. 

When this system works in conjunction with water tube boilers, the 



256 STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 

above control is omitted; the feed pumps are controlled by the usual boiler 
water-level controllers in the boilers, and the water-extraction pump is of such 
a capacity that it has the ability to follow up the feed pump under all condi¬ 
tions. In ships fitted with water tube boilers, and especially fast naval vessels, 
a sudden shut down of the main engines causes a sudden and large drop in 
the water level in the boilers. This is due to sudden stoppage of the steam¬ 
ing in the boilers caused by the rise in boiler pressure and the closing of 
the burners. A boiler which is steaming heavily has a water level much 
higher than the solid water level which would obtain if no ebullition were 
taking place inside, or the average density of the water inside the boiler is, 
due to the ebullition, much less than that of solid water, hence the water level 
rises and is higher than that shown in the water-level gauge glass. When 
the steaming ceases the water level settles to approximately that for solid 
water, and the water-level controllers open up the feed-regulating valves; this 
causes the boiler feed pump to discharge its maximum capacity, and the water- 
extraction pump must be able to follow up the boiler feed pump. This con¬ 
dition calls for a very large supplementary feed valve J (fig. 130), which must 
allow the maximum capacity of the boiler feed pump to be drawn into the 
main condenser, and hence pass to the water-extraction pump, so that the 
latter is able to supply the demand made by the feed pump; the tank also 
must be of such a capacity that it is not drained empty by this condition. 
The boiler feed pump continues to discharge its maximum capacity till the 
water level in the boilers rises and operates the controllers, thus closing the 
regulating valves. When the main engines start away again ebullition in 
the boilers will commence, and the water level will rise up over the water- 
level controllers, in other words, there will be too much water in the boilers. 
This water is got rid of by the water-level controllers holding the regulating 
valves shut so that the feed pump discharges no water, the water level in 
the extraction pump suction pipe will therefore rise, and by the action of 
the float control open the overflow valve K, and the excess water will pass 
to the feed tank N. This release of water will continue till the water level 
in the boiler falls to normal, when the controllers will open the regulating 
valves and enable the feed pump to commence feeding normally. This 
arrangement has been found to work well on fast naval vessels of the torpedo- 
boat class. 

MIRRLEES WATSON CLOSED FEED SYSTEM 

The closed feed system as placed on the market by Messrs. The 
Mirrlees Watson Company, is shown in fig. 131, and which, along with the 
following description, was kindly supplied to the author by the above com¬ 
pany. The condensate from the main condenser A drains to the condensate 
collecting tank B under condenser vacuum, and in which is housed a float 
ball K and valve L. The condensate pump C draws from the tank B and 
delivers to a pressure tank D. The pressure in this tank is regulated by the 
spring-loaded control valve J, and is such as may be found necessary to deliver 



FEED SYSTEMS 


257 


the condensate through the feed heaters to the feed tank or feed pump. 
In order that the condensate pump may operate steadily under varying 
steam load and to provide for the accurate measurement of the steam load 
on the main turbine at all times, an equalizing or balance pipe M connects 
the pressure tank D with the condensate collecting tank B. This connection, 
in combination with the pressure tank and the float-control valve L, ensures 
the desired results. The condensa f e pump C is designed to deal with the 
condensate resulting from full steam load, under which condition a certain 
water level will be maintained in the collecting tank B, and as arranged 
the pump will always deliver such quantity of water to the pressure tank D. 



When the steam load falls the water level in the collecting tank B will be 
maintained by the operation of the float K and valve L, which will allow 
water to flow back from the pressure tank D to the difference between the 
lower load and the full load, and the water passing from the pressure tank 
to the feed heaters will be equal to the amount discharged by the pump, 
less the amount passing back to the collecting tank B, i.e. equivalent to the 
condensate corresponding to the actual steam load. This quantity will be 
registered by the venturi meter O, and will be the steam consumption of 
the main turbine plus the steam consumption of the ejector air pump E; 
this latter is a constant known quantity. The steam ejector air pump E is 
of the two-stage type with intermediate condenser to condense the steam 
from the first stage. The steam and air from the second stage is discharged 
to the ejector feed heater F; the condensed water from the ejector condenser 
is drained through a U-sealing pipe to the condensate pump suction pipe. 
Alternatively the U-pipe may be dispensed with and a float control box 

( d 450) 17 a 






258 STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 

substituted. A steady supply of injection water for the ejector condenser 
is obtained from the pressure tank D by the pipe P, irrespective of the rate 
of discharge from the condensate pump. The feed heater G is supplied with 
steam bled from a low-pressure stage of the main turbine, and the steam 
condensed in this heater drains to the drain cooler H, where the drain is 
reduced in temperature before it passes to the main condenser via the vacuum 
trap R and pipe S. The drain from the ejector heater F gravitates to the drain 
tank T, and returns to the main condenser through the float-controlled valve 
V and pipe W. The condensate after passing the venturi meter O flows 
through the heaters H, F, and G in series before passing to the feed pump 
suction. By-passes are fitted to these heaters, so that any one may be cut out 
if desired. An air freeing pipe X connects the heater G with the main con¬ 
denser, as at low loads the steam supplied to this heater will be under 
atmospheric pressure, and under this condition the air must be released 
to the main condenser. An atmospheric connection is fitted to the 
ejector discharge pipe Y for starting up. 

HICK HARGREAVES CLOSED FEED SYSTEM 

This system, as designed for land duty, is shown diagrammatically in 
fig. 132, which has been kindly supplied to the author by Messrs. Hick Har¬ 
greaves. 

A is the main condenser, and B the water-extraction pump which with¬ 



draws the condensate from A and discharges to a closed tank D. The tank D 
has a small steam supply led to the top of the tank and above the water level, 
so that a slight steam pressure is maintained above the water level which 
prevents the ingress of atmospheric air; a leak off is fitted and a slight puff 
of steam is kept blowing. This arrangement prevents the ingress of air 
from the outside, but the condensation which takes place on the surface 
of the water leaves a small blanket of the air which was contained in the 
steam behind. This air is immediately absorbed by the condensate in the 
tank, and being a very small quantity, is in some systems neglected. 

The water is drawn from the feed tank D by the lift pump E, and dis- 


FEED SYSTEMS 


259 


charged through the feed heater or house turbine condenser X, to the elevated 
closed tank Z. From this tank the water gravitates to the suction of the 
boiler feed pump F. The tank Z is elevated, so that a positive suction head is 
given to the feed pump; since the condensate is heated in passing through 
the feed heater X the elevated position of the tank Z is necessary to enable 
the feed pumps to deal satisfactorily with the feed water. 

Connected to the main condenser is a small tank L which contains a 
float. The water level in this tank L is the same as that in the extraction 
pump suction pipe, and rises and falls with it. This float controls a valve 
to which is connected two pipes, one W to the feed tank, and one to the top 
of the condenser. When the float falls water is drawn from the feed tank 
through the pipe W to the float regulated valve, and thence to the top of 
the condenser; this water does not pass into the tank L, but is by-passed 
through the float-operated valve. The above arrangement ensures that the 
water-extraction or condensate pump B is fully charged under all steam loads 
of the main turbine. Since the float maintains the water level over the con¬ 
densate pump suction sensibly constant, the pump B will deliver its maxi¬ 
mum quantity under all loads, and the excess not drawn by the lift pump 
E will circulate round pipe W. 

From the elevated tank Z an overflow pipe leads to an open auxiliary 
tank H, which is fitted with a float and valve; from this valve a pipe is led 
to the top of the main condenser; when the float in the tank H rises the 
water is drawn up into the condenser. The drains from the heater X are 
led to the tank H. The make-up feed supply is shown at P, and is con¬ 
trolled by a valve situated in the pipe line, this valve is controlled by a float 
placed low down in the feed tank, so that when the feed water runs low the 
float falls and make-up is admitted at P to the auxiliary tank H, and is there¬ 
after passed to the main condenser. 

The operation of the system may be described as follows: 

When the demand made by the feed pump for water is greater than that 
supplied from the condenser as condensate, the deficiency is made up from 
the feed tank D by the water level in it falling. 

When the condensate leaving the main condenser is greater than the 
demand made by the feed pump, the water level rises in the elevated tank Z 
and overflows through the overflow pipe to the auxiliary tank H. The water 
level rising in this tank raises the float, thus allowing the excess to be drawn 
into the main condenser, whereafter it is withdrawn by the condensate 
pump B and delivered to the feed tank D and accumulates therein. 

Fig- J 33 shows, in diagrammatic form, the arrangements adopted when 
an evaporator is installed to provide the necessary make-up supply, and the 
figure also shows the disposition of venturi meters for the accurate measure¬ 
ment of the condensate. 

The diagram is similar to that shown in fig. 132, except that the evaporator 
is shown at G. The steam supply R to the evaporator is automatically con¬ 
trolled by the float in the feed tank D, so that the output from the evaporator 
is regulated by the. float, and a full feed tank of distilled water is thereby 

( D 450 ) 17a2 



26 o 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


always assured. N and O are venturi meters. The meter O measures 
the gross quantity of water discharged by the pump B, and the meter N 
measures the quantity of water by-passed from the tanks D and H. The 
difference between the readings of the meters O and N gives the quantity 



of steam condensed from the main unit. A small correction is necessary 
for the quantity of steam used by the first stage of the air ejector M. This 
steam enters the condensate suction pipe, and is metered along with the main 
condensate, and should therefore be deducted. The quantity, however, is 
relatively small and is constant. 



Another scheme which is sometimes adopted is that shown diagrammati- 
cally in fig. 134. 

The feed tank A is open and elevated to give a head on the suction of 
the boiler feed pump B. The water-extraction pump C discharges direct to 
the feed pump suction, and a vertical pipe E connects the feed suction pipe 
D with the feed tank. When the pump C is delivering more water than is 
being demanded by the pump B, the excess flows up the pipe E and into 



FEED SYSTEMS 


261 


the feed tank A; conversely when B is demanding more water than is being 
supplied by C the extra water demanded flows down the pipe E from the 
feed tank and makes up the deficiency; this deficiency thus withdrawn is, 
as will be seen, not de-aerated, and for this reason the arrangement is some¬ 
times referred to as semi or partially closed. To get over this defect a pipe 
F, with valve H, is sometimes fitted. The valve H is hand regulated, so 
that under varying conditions of load, &c., there is always a slight flow 
up the pipe E. 

The arrangement is a simple and flexible one, and for this reason is some¬ 
times adopted. 



CHAPTER XII 


De-aeration Plants 

De-aeration plants are now becoming increasingly popular, and have 
for their object, as their name implies, the de-aeration of the feed water 
before it enters the boiler. These plants therefore perform the same function 
as closed feed systems do. The closed feed system, however, is particularly 
applicable to new stations where the arrangement of the units can be readily 
adapted to form a closed system; de-aeration plants, on the other hand, 
can be readily applied to existing stations, and a great number have been 
and are being applied to existing stations in this country and abroad, where 
troubles with corrosion in the feed lines, economizers, and boilers have 
been experienced. They are also easily worked into the general scheme 
for new stations. There are three popular types at present on the market. 

1. The water to be de-aerated is sprayed into a vessel wherein a vacuum 
is maintained, and then heated by exhaust steam to boiling-point. With this 
type the vacuum in the vessel should correspond with the temperature of 
the water leaving the vessel, that is, the water in the vessel is virtually boiled, 
so that the air is driven off. 

2. The water to be de-aerated is broken up by being allowed to fall over 
trays arranged inside the de-aerating vessel wherein a vacuum is maintained. 
Arranged below the trays is a series of horizontal tubes, to the inside of which 
steam is admitted, the water falling over the hot tubes is thus boiled and 
broken up, so that the air is effectively liberated. This method is known as 
the flashing method, that is, the water to be de-aerated is flashed over hot 
surfaces. 

3. The water to be de-aerated is first heated and then injected into a 
vessel wherein a vacuum is maintained higher than that corresponding to 
the temperature of the injected water. The water thus injected is super¬ 
heated; and the energy liberated, due to the reduction in pressure and tem¬ 
perature, causes a violent breaking up, or flashing as it is called, of the feed 
water, and the air is thus liberated. 

This method is greatly in vogue in the United States, where it is manu¬ 
factured by the Elliott Company. 

An example of a de-aerating vessel which employs the first method is 
shown in fig. 135. 

The water enters at A and passes through the spring-loaded spray valve 
B, A small pressure reduction obtains across this valve so that the water is 



DE-AERATION PLANTS 


263 


finely divided and a percentage of the air liber¬ 
ated; this water falls into the perforated cone 
piece C and flows out through the perforations 
in the form of a rain. The heating steam enters 
at D, and passing round the steam belt E, formed 
by the perforated waist piece F, issues through 
the perforations and intermingles with the rain 
of falling water, thus heating the latter by direct 
contact and driving off the air. The de-aerated 
water, along with the condensed steam, falls to 
the bottom and is drawn off at H. The liberated 
air passes upwards and, meeting the cold spray 
of entering water, is densified and devaporized 
and passes out through the branch J, which 
may be connected to the main condensers of the 
station or to the suction of an air ejector. Due 
to the large amount of air cooling and devaporiz¬ 
ing which normally obtains with this type of de¬ 
aerator, it is usually an easy matter to maintain 
a vacuum corresponding with the outlet tem¬ 
perature, and under these conditions the de-aeration is quite efficient. This 
design of heater and de-aerator is that usually adopted on board ship. 

WEIR DE-AERATING PLANT 

Fig. 136 shows an arrangement of de-aerating plant which is an extension 
of the third method. This arrangement is that now adopted by Messrs. 
G. & J. Weir, Ltd., Glasgow, for land power stations, and has been found 
to give good de-aeration. 

The condensate being discharged by the water-extraction pumps is not 
discharged direct to the feed tank A but goes to the de-aerating plant at B 
and passes first through a de-vaporizer C, which is a tubular apparatus very 
similar to a steam condenser; the condensate passes down through the inside 
of the tubes, and, leaving at the bottom, passes to the air ejector D by the 
pipe E; in flowing through the air ejector it condenses the steam used by the 
jets and is itself raised in temperature; thereafter it passes by the pipe F 
to the feed tank A. Auxiliary exhaust or live steam is led to the feed tank 
by the pipe G and nozzle heater H to give a feed tank temperature of 140° 
to 160 0 F. 

The feed water leaves the feed tank by the pipe J and enters the first 
stage chamber K through the butterfly throttle valve L, which is controlled 
by the hollow copper float M. 

Beneath the first stage chamber is a second stage chamber N, having a 
similar inlet butterfly throttle valve O and float P; the feed water flows from 
the chamber K to the chamber N through the valve O, and collects at the 
bottom of the chamber N, whence it is withdrawn by the water-extraction or 




264 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


booster pump Q and delivered direct to the suction of the boiler feed pump 
R, and thence to the boilers. 

The principle of this de-aerator is as follows: 

The heating is done in the feed tank under atmospheric pressure, this 
drives off a portion of the air; a vacuum is maintained in the vessel N by the 
air ejector D, the vacuum temperature being 20° F. higher than the temper¬ 



ature of the water entering the first stage chamber. A vacuum a few inches 
Hg lower is maintained in the first stage chamber. The water therefore 
passing the first stage valve L receives a pressure drop which liberates a 
portion of the air and also some vapour, this air and vapour pass to the 
second stage chamber by way of the pipe S and enter above a perforated 
blast plate T; some air and vapour is also liberated at the second throttle 
valve O, and this, together with the air and vapour liberated at the first stage, 
blasts through the perforated plate T along with the feed water and causes 
a violent disintegration of the water which practically frees the water of all 





















DE-AERATION PLANTS 


265 


air. Figures as low as zero oxygen have been obtained from these plants. 

A normal set of temperature conditions for these plants would be as 
follows: 

The condensate enters C at 70° F. and leaves C at 90° F., passes through 
the air ejector and leaves at 94 0 F. Sufficient steam enters the feed tank to 
give a tank temperature of 160 0 F.; in passing through the first and second 
stage chambers the liberated vapour lowers the temperature an amount 
exactly equal to the gain in temperature of the condensate passing through 
the de-vaporizer, that is, 20° F., so that the water leaving the de-aerator 
will be 140° F. 

A non-return valve U and pipe V are arranged as shown, the valve U 
closing upwards and the pressure in the pipe W created by the booster 
pump Q is arranged higher than that corresponding to the height of the feed 
tank. Under working conditions, therefore, the pressure in W holds the non¬ 
return valve W shut and all the water passes to the feed pump; should, how¬ 
ever, the booster pump stop from any cause whatever, the pressure in the 
pipe W falls, thus allowing valve U to open and the boiler feed pump auto¬ 
matically draws direct from the feed tank. 

To start up this plant the condensate is made to circulate the de-vaporizer 
C and air ejector D first; steam is then turned on to the air ejector and 
vacuum created in the de-aerating chambers, valve Y is then opened and 
water flows into the first and thereafter into the second stage chambers and 
comes under the control of the float-controlled valves L and O. The booster 
pump thereafter is started, and lastly the boiler feed pump, if it be not already 
running and drawing direct from the feed tank; if the latter condition holds, 
the pressure created by the booster pump will close valve U and the change 
over from the feed tank to the de-aerating plant will take place automatically. 

The performance of these plants when measured in cubic centimetres 
of oxygen per litre of water remaining in the water after treatment varies 
with the temperature of the water leaving the de-aerator, the variation being 
approximately from 0*15 at ioo° F. to 0-03 at 140° F. 

HICK HARGREAVES DE-AERATING PLANT 

Another design of de-aerating plant w r hich employs the first method is 
that manufactured by Messrs. Hick Hargreaves & Co., Bolton. 

The arrangement is shown in fig. 137 and consists essentially of a surface 
preheater C, a de-aerating vessel A and an air ejector B. The water enters 
from the hotwell at E and makes two passes through the preheater C, wherein 
it is heated to a predetermined temperature, thereafter it is sprayed upwards 
into the de-aerator A through the nozzles F in the form of a divided spray, 
and collects in the bottom of the vessel A. A float-controlled throttle valve 
G is fitted at the inlet to spray nozzles to maintain a water-level over the 
extraction-pump suction. The air ejector B withdraws the liberated air and 
delivers it along with its own operating steam to the preheater C. A collector 
with a float-controlled valve H is arranged under the preheater C to collect 



266 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


the drain water from the heater, the valve H allowing same to flow to the 
de-aerator by the pipe J to de-aerator without air being drawn into the latter 
and impairing the vacuum. 

The manufacturers of this design of plant claim that they have found 
from experiment that there is a critical temperature at which the maximum 
degree of de-aeration can be obtained, when the water is sprayed into a 
vacuum corresponding to this temperature. This phenomenon was men¬ 



tioned on p. 240 when we were dealing with surface feed water heaters, 
and the critical temperature mentioned by them is presumably that men¬ 
tioned on p. 240, namely 176° F. To admit of the critical temperature being 
maintained a thermostatic control valve is fitted to control the quantity of 
steam admitted to the heater; the steam supply to the heater is that from the 
air ejector augmented by the available exhaust steam on the station or by 
direct boiler steam. 

These de-aerators are guaranteed by the manufacturers to reduce the 
oxygen content to less than o*i c. c. of oxygen per litre of water, and to 
reduce the carbon dioxide to practically nothing. 






DE-AERATION PLANTS 


267 


CONTRAFLO ENGINEERING COMPANY’S DE-AERATING 

PLANT 

An example of a de-aerator which employs the second method is shown 
in fig. 138, and is the design adopted by the Contraflo Engineering Company, 
Ltd., 3 Central Buildings, Westminster, London. 

The water to be de-aerated flows from the feed tank A through the float- 
operated valve B to the top of the de-aerator. The water falls over a series 

of trays C, which give a preliminary 
breaking up to the water and free a 
percentage of the air; the water leaves 
the bottom tray in the form of a rain 
and falls on hot tube surfaces D. 
These surfaces are maintained hot by 
exhaust steam which enters at E and 
flows through the interior of the tubes. 
The exhaust steam condensed leaves 
at F, and may be passed to the main 


E 


Fig. 138 Fig. 139 

condenser. G is an air ejector which maintains the vacuum in the de-aerator. 
This vacuum should correspond to the temperature of the water leaving the 
de-aerator. Due to the water falling on the hot surfaces, a portion of this 
water will be vaporized. The vapour rises upwards through the water fall¬ 
ing over the trays and imparts its latent heat to the water; the combined 
effect of this heating, together with the breaking up of the water, liberates 
the first portion of the air; the remaining portion is liberated on the hot 
surfaces by the violent ebullition of the water passing down from one hot 
tube to the other. These de-aerators are claimed to give a high degree of 
de-aeration, the makers claiming to completely remove all traces of dis¬ 
solved oxygen. The water is withdrawn from the de-aerator by the 
pump H, the suction head on which is maintained constant by the float 
J and valve B. 








268 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


An example of the third method is shown in fig. 139, the arrangement 
shown being one due to the Contraflo Engineering Company. 

A is the main condenser from which the water-extraction pump 
B draws and delivers the condensate through the tubes of the sur¬ 
face heater C to the inlet of the de-aerator D. Exhaust steam is 
supplied to the heater C, so that the condensate is heated on its way 
to the de-aerator D. 

A vacuum greater than that corresponding to the inlet water temperature 
is maintained in the de-aerator by the latter being connected to the condenser 
by the pipe E and regulating valve F. The de-aerator is fitted with a spring- 
loaded spray valve H, across which the inlet water flashes to liberate the air; 
the air, together with the flashed vapour or steam, passes along the pipes E 
to the condenser A, where the vapour is condensed and the air is extracted 
by the main air pump fitted to the condenser A. The de-aerated water is 
withdrawn from the de-aerator by the pump G. To ensure efficient 
separation of the dissolved air, the temperature drop or gradient across 
the spray valve H should not be less than 22 0 F., that is, if the water 
entering the de-aerator be at a temperature of 160° F. the vacuum 
carried in the de-aerator should be that corresponding to 160 — 22 
= 138° F., or 24! in. 


METHOD OF MEASURING DISJOINED OXXGE& 

IN FEED WATER 

Many power station engineers are now demanding a guarantee from 
makers of de-aerating plants for the oxygen content of the water as it leaves 
the de-aerator. The usual guarantee varies from 0*2 to 0*05 c.c. of oxygen 
per litre of water and the test is usually made by the iodometric method, 
due to Winkler. The test may be performed as follows: 

To 250 c.c. of the water add 2 c.c. of manganous sulphate solution and 
2 c.c. of a solution containing potassium iodide and sodium hydrate. Mix 
gently. Add 3 c.c. of dilute sulphuric acid and mix. Titrate with N/40 sodium 
thiosulphate solution, using starch solution as indicator. 

1 c.c. N/40 thiosulphate solution = 0*56 c.c. oxygen per litre. 

The strengths of the various solutions and the method of stan¬ 
dardizing the thiosulphate solution are given in any modern textbook 
on water analysis. 

METHOD OF DETECTING THE CORROSIVE 
PROPERTIES OF FEED WATER 

Messrs G. & J. Weir, Ltd., have recently placed on the market an 
apparatus for testing the corrosiveness of feed water, and called by them a 
corrosion detector. This instrument does not give a quantitive measure 



DE-AERATION PLANTS 


269 


of the dissolved gases in the feed water, it rather detects whether the feed 
water is corrosive or not, and to a certain extent the degree of corrosiveness 
of the feed water. The essentials of the instrument are a polished steel plate 
or disc, over the polished surface of which the feed water to be tested is 
made to flow; the back of the disc is heated by any convenient means. The 
heat flow across the disc to the polished surface liberates the dissolved gases 
in the feed water on the polished surface, which is immediately attacked by 
the liberated gases. 

Fig. 140 shows a section through the instrument. 

The water inlet is connected to the feed pipe and the water outlet is led 



Fig. 140 Fig. 142 


to waste. The heat is applied to the back of the steel disc by connecting 
the steam inlet to any convenient steam or exhaust pipe, and the drain is 
led to waste. In front of the polished plate a glass plate is fitted through 
which the action may be observed going on. To make a test the instrument 
is connected up as above described; the water inlet valve is first opened 
and the water allowed to flow freely over the polished surface for a few 
moments to expel all air. When all air is expelled the water inlet valve is 
throttled down till a small flow takes place, which may be observed at 
the open end of the water outlet pipe. The steam inlet valve is then opened 
full, and if the water is corrosive the liberated gases may be seen adhering 
to the polished surface, and in a few moments the plate will be observed 
to be quite discoloured; if the water is non-corrosive the bright polish on 
the plate will be unaffected. The makers recommend a standard time of 
one hour for each test, this enables a comparison of the corrosiveness of 
feed water to be obtained by observing the depth and extent of the pit marks 



270 


STEAM CONDENSING PLANT 


on individual discs. It is worthy of note that this instrument detects corrosion 
whether the action is due to oxygen or carbonic acid gas. 

Fig. 141 and 142 are reproductions of two discs after two hours’ treat¬ 
ment. Fig. 141 shows the condition of the disc after exposure to feed 
water in a closed feed system, while fig. 142 shows the condition after 
exposure of feed water in an open feed system. The water used for 
both these discs was pure distilled water, and the necessity for de-aeration 
is clearly shown. 



INDEX 


Air, mass of, to be withdrawn, 37-41. 

— normal saturation of, 114. 

— relative humidity of, 114. 

— specific heat of, 114. 

Air cooler, and high vacuum condensers, 56-7. 

— fitted to surface condenser, 41-6. 

— in parallel-flow condenser, 90. 

— mass of vapour condensed by, 42. 

— resistances for, 43. 

Air ejector, air capacity test, 145. 

— air and steam operated, 155. 

— and air pumps, 123-80. 

— and surface condensers, 138-9. 

— Brown-Boveri, 155. 

— central-condenser type, 138. 

— Delas, 132. 

— Hick-Breguet, 139-42. 

— inter-condenser type, 136. 

— Mirrlees, 135-9. 

— Radojet, 146-51. 

— steam-jet operated, 123-9. 

— Weir, 142-6. 

Air extractors, Delas, 151-5. 

Air leakage, allowable, 37, 160-3. 

Air-leak nozzles, 158-9. 

Air pumps, 155-80. 

— capacity tests, 158-63. 

— displacement, 171-6. 

— Edwards, 178-80. 

— for high and low vacuum, 163-5. 

— kinetic (marine type), 177-8. 

— kinetic (rotary system), 176-7. 

— marine, 165-71. 

— Mirrlees-Le Blanc rotary, 156-7. 

— multi-ejector type, 135. 

— Weir independent dual, 167-71. 

— Weir paragon, 173-5. 

-vacuum curves, 174. 

Augmenters, steam-jet, 171-80. 

— radojet vacuum, 175-6. 

Barometric jet condensers. See High-level jet 
condensers. 

Baumann, 172. 

B.E.A.M.A., allowable air leakage, 37, 160-3. 

— standard air nozzle, 160. 

Bernouilli, 107. 

Birmingham Corporation generating station, 
test at, 65. 

Blackadder, Dr., 197. 

Board of Trade rule for safety valves, 225. 

Box, 18. 

Brine density, testing, 226. 

Brine ejector, theory of, -217-21. 

271 


Brine ejector, Weir, 217. 

Brown-Boveri, regenerative condenser, 73-4. 

— ejector air pump, 155. 

Bunsen, 250. 

Burst tube in evaporator, 223-4. 

Callendar, H. L., 10. 

Calvert, 249. 

Carbonic acid theory of corrosion, 249. 
Charles’s law, 38. 

Circulating pumps, 197-205. 

— Drysdale, 198-9. 

Circulating water pumps, piping for, 202-5. 
Coefficient of performance, 47. 

Cole Marchant and Morlev, Delas extractor, 

152-5. 

Condensation, variation in rate of, 29-30. 
Condensers, ejector, 104-12. 

— Korting multi-jet, 104-5. 

— low-level jet, 77-96. 

— shape for constant steam velocity, 31-6. 

— surface, 1-76. 

Condenser tubes, cleaning, 20. 

—- cleaning apparatus, 21-3. 

— critical velocity in, 9, 23-5. 

— friction loss in, 17-20. 

— heat flow across, 1, 7-11. 

— John Crane metallic packing for, 75-6. 
Contraflo Engineering Co.’s de - aeratory 

plant, 267-8. 

Contra-flow jet condenser, cooling water 
inlet pipe, 81-3. 

— head of water in trays, 84-7. 

— volume of, 87-8. 

Contra-flow surface condenser, 72. 
Corrosion, 248-50. 

— detector, 268-70. 

— theory, 249. 

Critical velocity in condenser tubes, 9, 23-5. 

Dalton’s law of partial pressures, 12, 115. 
De-aeration plants, 262-70. 

— Contraflo, 267-8. 

— Weir, 263-5. 

— Hick Hargreaves, 265-6. 

Delaporte, M., 132, 139. 

Delas air ejector, 132. 

Delas air extractors, 151-5. 

*— air handling capacity, 153. 

— steam consumption ratio, 152. 

Diaphragm plates, 62-4, 68. 

Diffuser, relation between efflux velocity and 
pressure rise, 107-8. 

— efficiency, 133. 



272 


INDEX 


Direct-contact feed heaters, 246-7. 

Discharge piping for circulating water pumps, 
202-5. 

Displacement air pumps with steam-jet aug¬ 
mented, 171-6. 

Drysdale circulating pump, 198-9. 

— characteristics, 199. 

Drysdale water-extraction pump, 184-6. 

— characteristics, 186. 

Edwards air pumps, 178-80. 

— speeds, 180. 

Efficiency, hydraulic, 191-2. 

Efficiency of surface condenser, 47. 

Ejector condensers, 104-12. 

— Korting, 104-5, 110-12. 

— velocity of efflux, 106-7. 

Electrolytic theory of corrosion, 249. 
Entrance friction, 17-9. 

Evaporation plant, 227-19. 

Evaporative condensers, 113-21. 

— consumption of circulating pump in, 119. 

— Ledward & Beckett, 117-21. 

— quantity of water lost by, 117. 

— test results, 121. 

Evaporators, 206-37. 

— condition when tube bursts, 223-4. 

— continuous feed to, 221. 

— mean temperature difference in, 211-4. 

— multiple effect, 226-35. 

-heating surfaces, 230. 

— Prache & Bouillon, 235-7. 

— safety valves on, 222-5. 

— sea-water, 214-21. 

— surface in, 209-11. 

— theory of, 208-12. 

— transmission rates in, 210. 

— Weir, 207-9, 215. 

Evaporator safety valves, regulations as to 
size of, 225. 

Exhaust inlet, area of, 57. 

Feed systems, 248-61. 

— closed, 248-61. 

— open, 248. 

Feed water heater, 239-47. 

— direct contact, 246-7. 

— necessary surface in, 239-44. 

— resistance to heat flow, 240-1. 

— steel tubes, 244. 

— superheated steam, 244-6. 

Feed water, to detect corrosive properties of, 
266-8. 

— to measure oxygen in, 266. 

Friction head, 18-9. 

— in straight pipe, 82. 

Friend, Dr. J. Newton, 249. 

Glands, steam sealed, 37. 

— water sealed, 37. 

Glasgow Corporation, Pinkston Power Sta¬ 
tion, 68-71. 

Goudie, 129. 

Grashof’s equation, 4, 6. 

Heat flow across tube walls, 1. 

— mechanical equivalent of, 108. 

— resistances to, 7-11. 


Heating surfaces in multiple-effect evapo¬ 
rator, 230-1. 

Henry’s law, 250. 

Hick-Breguet air ejectors, 139-42. 

— tests, 141. 

Hick-Breguet low-level jet condenser, 90-1. 
Hick Hargreaves closed feed system, 258-61. 
High-level jet condensers. 98-103. 

— h.p. absorbed by condensing water pump. 

101-2. 

— Mirrlees, 102-3. 

High vacuum condensers and air cooler, 56-7. 
Hydraulic efficiency of water-extraction 
pump, 191-2. 

Iodometric method of measuring dissolved 
oxygen, 268. 

John Crane metallic packing, 75-6. 

Kinetic air pumps, 176-8. 

— arrangement of, 177-8. 

Korting, ejector condenser, tests results of, 
111-2. 

— multi-jet ejector condenser, 104-5. 

— vacuum breaker, no. 

Land turbine, condenser for, 48-53. 

Le Blanc, M., 131. 

Ledward & Beckett evaporative condenser, 
117-21. 

Low-level jet condensers, 77-96. 

— Hick-Breguet, 90-1. 

-— Mirrlees, 92-6. 

Marine air pumps, 165-71. 

Martin, H. M., 130. 

Mean temperature difference, 1-6. 

Mirrlees, air ejectors, 135-8. 

-central-condenser type, 138. 

— extraction pump, 181-2. 

— high-level jet condenser, 102-3. 

— inter-condenser air ejector, 126. 

— low-level jet condensers, 92-6. 

— multi-jet condenser, 93-4. 

— test chart, 137. 

— tube-cleaning apparatus, 21-3. 
Mirrlees-Le Blanc rotary air pump, 93, 

156-7. 

— air capacity test, 157. 

Mirrlees Watson closed feed system, 256-8. 

— surface condenser, 65-71. 

Mollier diagram, 108. 

Multi-ejector air pump, 135. 

Multi-jet condenser, Korting, 104-5. 

— nozzles in, 105. 

Multiple effect evaporators, 226-35. 
Musgrave Radojet ejector, 146-9. 

Nozzle, air leakage, 158. 

— air, quantity passing, 159-60. 

Paragon air pump, 173-5. 

Parallel-flow condenser, air coolers in, 90. 

— Mirrlees Watson, 92-6. 

— spray nozzles in, 88-9. 

Parsons, Hon. C. A., 171, 180. 

“ Pervac ” water-extraction pump, 184-6. 
Poiseuille, 24. 



INDEX 


273 


Potassium iodide, 268. 

Prache & Bouillon thermo-compressor, 235-7. 
Pressure drop, 25-8. 

Pressures in surface condensers, 12-4. 

Radojet, air ejectors, 146-51. 

— vacuum augmenter, 175-6. 

Reciprocating engine, condenser for, 53-5. 
Regenerative surface condensers, 72-4. 
Relative humidity, 114. 

Reynolds, Prof. O., 23. 

Safety valves, Board of Trade rule for, 225. 
Safety valves on evaporators, 222-3. 

Scaling, in condenser tubes, 20-3. 

— in evaporating coils, 215. 

Sea-water, density of, 214. 

— evaporators, 214-6. 

-continuous brining of, 216-7. 

Sodium hydrate, 266. 

Sodium thiosulphate solution, 268. 

Steam nozzles, 129-35. 

— exit velocity, 129. 

Steam velocity, 31-6. 

Suction Pipes, 192-5. 

— for circulating water pumps, 202-5. 
Surface condensers, 1-76. 

— air cooler fitted to, 41-6. 

— and air ejectors, 138-9. 

— contra-flow, 72. 

— cooling water and vacuum, 14-7. 

— dimensions, &c., for given conditions, 

48 - 55 . 

— efficiency of, 47. 

— exhaust inlet, 57. 

— Mirrlees Watson, 65-71. 

— miscellaneous examples on, 58-61. 

— pressures in, 12-4. 

— regenerative, 72-4. 

— variation in rate of condensation, 29-30. 

— various makes of, 61-76. 

— Weir uniflux 61-5. 

Surface feed water heaters, 238-47. 

— necessary surface, 239-44. 

— resistances, 240-1. 

— steel tubes, 244. 

— superheated steam in 244-6. 

Testing brine density, 226. 

Theory of brine ejector, 217-21. 


Theory of water-extraction pumps, 186-91. 
Transmission rates in evaporation, 210-39. 
Tube, friction, 17-9. 

— cleaning, 20-1. 

— opening, 26, 28. 

— plates, 64, 68. 

Tube supporting diaphragms, 62. 

Vacuum, air and vapour to be withdrawn to 
maintain a given, 37-41. 

— and cooling water, 14-7. 

Vacuum augmenters, 171-80. 

— Radojet, 175-6. 

— breaker, no. 

Vacuum loss in steam space, 25-8. 

Vapour, mass of, to be withdrawn, 37-41. 
Velocity of efflux, 106-8. 

Volute chamber, 188-9. 

Vortex motion, 188, 190. 

Water-extraction pumps, 181-96. 

— design of, 196. 

— Drysdale, motor-driven, 184-6. 

— hydraulic efficiency of, 191-2. 

— Mirrlees, 181-2. 

— quantity discharged by, 191. 

— suction pipes, 192-5. 

— theory of, 186-91. 

— Weir, 182-4. 

Weir, Lord, 172. 

Weir, air ejectors, 142-6. 

— brine ejector, 217. 

— closed feed system, 251-6. 

— de-aeration plant, 263-5. 

— dual air pump and condenser, 167-71. 
-indicator cards, 169, 170. 

-test sheet, 171. 

— evaporators, 207-9, 215. 

-water-level regulator, 221. 

— extraction pump, 182-4. 

— Paragon air pump, 173-5. 

— regenerative condenser, 73, 74. 

— uniflux surface condenser, 61-5. 
Weisbach formula, 203. 

Westinghouse regenerative condenser, 73-4. 
Whirlpool chamber, 188, 190. 

Whitney, 249. 

Winkler, 268. 

Zeuner’s value for dry steam, 125. 



This book must be returned witffih 3/7/14 
days of its issue. A fine of ONE ANNA per day 
will be charged if the book is overdue. 



