
Early Journal Content on JSTOR, Free to Anyone in the World 

This article is one of nearly 500,000 scholarly works digitized and made freely available to everyone in 
the world by JSTOR. 

Known as the Early Journal Content, this set of works include research articles, news, letters, and other 
writings published in more than 200 of the oldest leading academic journals. The works date from the 
mid-seventeenth to the early twentieth centuries. 

We encourage people to read and share the Early Journal Content openly and to tell others that this 
resource exists. People may post this content online or redistribute in any way for non-commercial 
purposes. 

Read more about Early Journal Content at http://about.jstor.org/participate-jstor/individuals/early- 
journal-content . 



JSTOR is a digital library of academic journals, books, and primary source objects. JSTOR helps people 
discover, use, and build upon a wide range of content through a powerful research and teaching 
platform, and preserves this content for future generations. JSTOR is part of ITHAKA, a not-for-profit 
organization that also includes Ithaka S+R and Portico. For more information about JSTOR, please 
contact support@jstor.org. 



134 



SCIENCE. 



[Vol. XIII. No. 316 



up, in shape of the inchoate eidolon-fori of some nameless dreamy 
inventor. . 

Technical journalism, in the field of electrical power at least, 
would seem to be at a low ebb in New York. 

As for the current-generating plant and conductive system, they, 
as well as the " Franklin," are entirely of the Daft design. The 
former is on Fifteenth Street, about midway between Sixth and 
Seventh Avenues, and wires of suitable size convey the current to 
and fro between the stationary plant and the track-conductors. A 
steam-engine of 250 horse-power drives four dynamo-generators of 
50 horse-power each. 

The conductor is a copper rod, five-eighths of an inch in diam- 
eter, sustained by insulators attached to the guard-timbers along- 
side the track. Elastic copper "brushes" pressing against and 
sliding along this rod convey the current to the electro-motive 
mechanism, which it traverses, causing revolution by its passage, 
and completes its circuit through the wheels and track-rails. 

Time and space will not admit of an analysis of the inherent and 
incidental economy of electric propulsion ; but " he who runs may 
read," whether or no the preference lies with the light, compara- 
tively noiseless, cleanly electro-locomotor, devoid of steam, smoke, 
cinder, and hot jets d'eau, or the ponderous, clamorous, steam- 
locomotive, wasteful of fuel, destructive of road-bed, and inherently 
hampered by nuisances from which its electric rival is absolutely 
free. X. 



THE WORTHINGTON INDEPENDENT CONDENSER. 

That the practical results attained by condensing-engines should 
approximate to those that theory indicates, it is important that the 
condensing-apparatus employed should be the most efficient possi- 
ble ; that it should maintain the highest vacuum, with the least cost 
of production ; that it should be regular and reliable in action, and 
simple in construction ; and that its application to the engine should 
be unaccompanied by any risk of accident. These exacting re- 
quirements, it is claimed, are fully met by the condenser shown in 
the accompanying illustrations. 

Exhaust-steam from an engine enters a vacuum with a velocity 
of about 1,900 feet per second; and water, under atmospheric 
pressure, with a velocity of 47 feet a second. Excepting the ma- 
chine herein described, it may be said that in all forms of jet-con- 
densers operated by air-pumps, the injection-water and the water 
from the steam fall to the bottom of the condensing-chamber, come 
to a standstill before entering the pump, and consequently lose the 
valuable momentum acquired when entering the vacuous space. 
In this condenser, however, the construction and arrangement are 
such that the momentum of the steam and water is conserved, and 
this force is utilized to assist the pump in its work. 

By a careful adaptation of the injector principle, it is possible, in 
an experimental way, to produce a vacuum, of low degree however, 
without the use of a pump at all, — simply by the momentum given 
to a flow of water by the impact of the exhaust-steam at the point 
of condensation. A condenser dependent upon this alone is not 
practical, because of its small range of action, the inferior vacuum 
it obtains, and the low temperature of the discharge-water. A 
change of the amount of steam to be condensed disturbs the theo- 
retical conditions, and renders this kind of apparatus too unreliable 
in practice. It is plain that the addition of a duplex pump to the 
discharge of such an ejector condenser perfects and governs its 
action. As the momentum of the water is not impaired, the highest 
economy of operation is reached. 

In this condenser, the air set free by the condensation of the 
steam is intermingled with the water. The pump has the same 
regularity of motion that is characteristic of Worthington pumping 
machinery ; in fact, it acts as a water-pump, although the water is 
aerated. There is here a great distinction between this condenser 
pumping aerated water, and an air-pump pumping air and water 
unmixed. In the latter case, the air-pump has a varying and ir- 
regular duty to perform, and the inevitable result is an irregular and 
slamming movement. 

The lower of the accompanying illustrations is a longitudinal 
section of one side of the condenser-pump, and also a section of the 
condenser-cone, spray-pipe, exhaust-elbow, and injection^elbow. 



A is the vapor- opening, to which is connected the pipe that con- 
ducts to the apparatus the steam or vapor that is to be condensed, 
and in which a vacuum is to be made and maintained. The injec- 
tion-water used to produce the condensation of the steam or vapor 
is conveyed by a proper pipe attached to the injection-opening at B. 
C is the spray-pipe, and has at its lower extremity a number of 
vertical slits, through which the water of injection passes, and be- 
comes spread out into thin sheets. The spray-cone D, by means 
of its serrated surface, breaks the water passing over it into fine 
spray, and thus insures a rapid and thorough intermixture with the 
steam. This spray-cone is adjustable by means of the handle E. 
The piston-pump G is of the well-known Worthington type ; built, 
however, with especial attention to the requirements of the service 
which is now being considered. H H shows the position of the in- 
duction, and //of the eduction valves, /is the discharge- opening. 
At K may be seen the steam or engine end of the machine, the 
standard form used on all Worthington steam-pumps. The steam- 
valve is an ordinary slide-valve, working upon a flat surface over 
ports or openings. The motion of this valve is produced by a 
vibrating arm, Z, which swings through the whole length of the 
stroke with long and easy leverage. 

This valve motion is a prominent feature of the Worthington in- 
dependent condenser. To it is due the complete exemption from 
noise or concussive action. The two pumps are placed side by 
side, and so combined as to act reciprocally upon the steam-valves 
of each other. One piston acts to give steam to the other, after 
which it finishes its own stroke and waits for its valve to be acted 
upon before it can renew its motion. This pause allows all the 
water- valves to seat quietly, and removes every thing like harsh- 
ness of motion. 

As one or the other, of the steam- valves must always be open, 
there can be no dead point. The pump is therefore always ready 
to start when steam is admitted, and is managed by the simple 
opening and shutting of the throttle-valve. 

The operation, of the condensing-apparatus is as follows : Steam 
being admitted to the cylinders K, so as to set the pump in motion, 
a vacuum is formed in the condenser, the engine-cylinder, the con- 
necting exhaust-pipe, and the injection-pipe. This causes the in- 
jection-water to enter through the injection-pipe attached at/?, and 
spray-pipe C, into the condenser-cone F. The main engine being 
then started, the exhaust-steam enters through the exhaust-pipe at 
A, and, coming into contact with the cold water, is rapidly con- 
densed. The velocity of the steam is communicated to the water, 
and the whole passes through the cone F into the pump G at a 
high velocity, carrying with it, in a thoroughly commingled condi- 
tion, all the air or uncondensable vapor which enters the condenser 
with the steam. The mingled air and water are discharged by the 
pump through the valves and pipe at J t before sufficient time or 
space has been allowed for separation to occur. 

It will be seen that the zone in which the condensation takes 
place is small, and the rapid effect is due only to the immense sur- 
face exposed by the spraying water. In case the water accumu- 
lates in the condenser-cone F, either by reason of an increased 
supply or by a sluggishness or even stoppage of the pump, as soon 
as the level of the water reaches the spray-pipe and the spray be- 
comes submerged, the vast surface is reduced to a minimum, only 
a small annular ring being exposed to the steam from the main en- 
gine. The vacuum is immediately broken, and the exhaust-steam 
escapes by blowing through the injection-pipe and through the 
valves of the pump, and out the discharge-pipe at /, forcing the 
water ahead of it : consequently flooding does not occur. 

These condensers have been constructed from those of a very 
small size up to those of enormous power. Two, which are 
probably the largest independent condensers in the world, are now 
applied to an engine of 8,000 horse-power, the injection-water of 
which amounts to 15,000 gallons a minute, or what is equivalent to 
about 20,000,000 gallons a day. Many of them are in use in con- 
nection with stationary steam-engines, and with marine engines on 
boats running in fresh water. The Worthington condenser is also 
used in connection with surface condensers on sea-going steamers, 
where it has a field of usefulness that is at once apparent to those 
who will but consider its functions. It performs the duty of two 
distinct pumps, -***- the air-pump and the circulating pump. It 



February 22, 1889.] 



SCIENCE. 



135 



produces a high vacuum, and causes a forced or positive move- 
ment of the cooling- water. By its use, derangement of the surface- 
condenser does not deprive the engine of the vacuum, as the inde- 



of electric lighting, were located indiscriminately. The boilers and 
engines were not the most economical, but answered well for a 
time. Those companies that were fortunate enough to find them- 
selves adjacent to water-supply, when they began to look around 
for better results, have not waited long to avail themselves of the 
increased output, or the corresponding saving in fuel, that is 
to be had by changing the engines from non-condensing to 
condensing. 

Being perfectly adapted to high-speed dynamo-engines, many 
electric light and power companies have found this independent 
condenser exceedingly valuable in connection with their steam- 
power. Twenty-five per cent saving in steam-consumption, and 
hence in the fuel burned, is frequently obtained. The increase in 
power often exceeds thirty per cent. In one of the above cases the 




SECTIONAL VIEW OF THE WORTHINGTON INDEPENDENT CONDENSER. 



pendent condenser can be used as a jet-condenser for the time 
being. The fact that one pump is dispensed with, should, in itself, 
commend the arrangement to the attention of engineers. 

It is also a valuable adjunct to electric-lighting plants. Many of 
the plants that were erected during the early period of the history 



gain is used to save steam, and in another to increase the output 
of power with same consumption of steam, and hence same fuel 
burned. There is a medium between these methods, and fuel can 
be saved and also power gained up to a sum total equal to the 
value of the twelve pounds per square inch made available by the 



136 



SCIENCE. 



[Vol. XIII. No. 316 



vacuum. The independent condenser is also used in connection 
with fire-pumps, mine-pumps, and water-works pumping-engines, 
as well as with vacuum pans and other evaporating apparatus. 
They are made by Henry R. Worthington of this city. 



THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE POTTERY INDUSTRY 
OF THE UNITED STATES. 

Mr. William C. Day, in the recent issue of the " Report on the 
Mineral Resources of the United States," traces the history of the 
pottery industry, which has of late become of considerable impor- 
tance. 

The first pottery established in the United States was in New 
York City, in its earliest days, when under Dutch rule. It was 
situated near the North River, above the present Chambers Street, 
the locality being at that time well out of town, in the country. 
More than a century ago, perhaps, a small pottery was established 
in Trenton, N.J., by some Frenchmen. Here porcelain, similar to 
what is now known as French china, was made, and it is said that 
the goods were very creditable. This establishment existed for 
some years, but it attained no great importance. At Philadelphia 
there was a similar pottery venture, also making porcelain or china 
wares, which are well spoken of for quality. This enterprise was 
sustained for a number of years, but failed to reach a permanent 
existence. 

There were other attempts to establish potteries in various parts 
of the country from time to time, and the only one which seems to 
have given the greatest concern to English manufacturers was one 
established in South Carolina. This was contemporary with the 
great Josiah Wedgwood, who has been called the father of the pot- 
tery industry in Great Britain, from the fact that he made great 
improvements in the quality of earthenware, which gave a very 
great impetus to the business in England. This South Carolina 
pottery proved quite alarming to Wedgwood, as he feared that it 
might become a dangerous competitor in supplying the earthen- 
ware markets of the colonies : he therefore petitioned Parliament 
that the manufacture of such goods be prohibited. He seemed to 
think, that, with the excellent materials found in South Carolina 
for making earthenware, the industry would become a successful 
one. His fears, however, proved groundless, as the unequal strug- 
gle was of short duration. 

One or two pottery enterprises, inaugurated within the past forty 
years, making special articles of white crockery-ware rather than 
a general assortment, maintained their existence only, and cannot 
be termed successful. 

The term " pottery industry," as understood at the present time, 
does not include the many little potteries scattered all over the 
United States, making stone-ware jugs, pie-plates, drain tile, yel- 
low crockery, etc., and which employ from six to twenty men each. 
These little establishments made the cheapest and commonest 
class of pottery products, with which foreign competition was 
powerless. Owing to the very low-priced class of such wares, the 
expenses of their importation bore so large a proportion to their 
cost at the foreign potteries, that competition was out of the ques- 
tion. In fact, in many cases the crates in which the goods were 
packed, and the inland transportation charges, equalled the original 
cost of the goods themselves. The pottery industry, as now spoken 
of, had therefore practically no existence in the United States in 
1 861, the several hundreds of so-called potteries in this country 
which statistics show then existed being all of the class above re- 
ferred to. The Morrill Tariff Bill, and the increase of duty from 
24 to 35 per cent, and the subsequent increase to 40 per cent, did 
not act as inducements towards the establishment of any new en- 
terprise. In 1863 the rapidly increasing premium on gold offered 
the necessary inducement, and several pottery enterprises were in- 
augurated. These manufactured at first the commonest class of 
crockery-ware for domestic uses ; but as experience gave confidence, 
and the wares gradually found favor, better grades were made, 
until the standard of the china-ware used by the millions of 
American citizens, and manufactured in this country, is recognized 
as equal to that made anywhere. It is true that there are several 
potteries in the United States who make more or less of very fine art 



pieces, which are forcing recognition on account of their superior 
excellence ; but the stability of the pottery industry rests upon the 
fact that it supplies the wants of the people for fine and common 
crockery for domestic uses, of which we in this country manufac- 
ture about 60 per cent. The American potter does not claim to be 
the peer of his foreign competitor in art productions, but he does- 
claim to equal any foreign manufacturer in the class of china which 
he produces for the American people. To-day the English potter 
is copying American shapes, designs, and styles of decorations. 
How different is this state of affairs from that which existed a few 
years ago, when the American potter depended upon foreign ideas 
for his shapes and designs ! With the development of the manu- 
facturing process, talent for designing shapes and patterns or styles 
of decoration has likewise progressed, until we have made our own 
American shapes and designs, which foreigners have been com- 
pelled to copy and adopt in order to find a market for their wares 
in the United States. 

This country still takes about 40 per cent of the total crockery- 
ware exported by England. This is about the proportion that 
has been maintained for many years, thus showing that the Ameri- 
can potter has increased his output in keeping with the increased 
consumption of the country. 

In regard to the present prices of pottery, it may be said that the 
consumer can now obtain for two dollars and a half what in 1861 
would have cost four dollars. 

The pottery industry gives directly employment to about ten 
thousand people, to whom wages amounting annually to four million 
dollars are paid ; this amount being nearly 50 per cent of the total 
value of the output of the potteries. In addition to these, there are 
many thousand more employed in the preparation of the materials 
for the potter's use, such as mining the clays, quartz, and felspar, 
and grinding and washing the materials. To these people nearly 
as much more in wages is paid; in fact, a careful estimate shows 
that 90 per cent of the cost of manufacturing pottery is paid for 
labor in one form or another. 

The decorating branch of this industry is one of its most inter- 
esting features, and one in which great advances have been made 
in late years. It gives employment of a light, interesting, and 
elevating character to many young people, both male and female. 
The growth of this branch has been wonderful, and has made the 
demand for beautiful decoration, both simple and elaborate, very 
general, and far more wide-spread throughout the country than 
ever before. Formerly beautiful decoration was to be found only 
in costly French and English wares, and the consumption was 
consequently limited to the wealthiest classes : now beautiful dec- 
orated wares are found in almost any household, where they have 
been obtained at prices which would have been considered im- 
possible a few years ago, and which have reduced very greatly the 
cost for French and English decorated products, and to a very 
great extent have enabled American decorated ware to supersede 
the foreign. 



HEALTH MATTERS. 



Yellow-Fever. — Dr. George M. Sternberg, U.S.A., has been 
relieved from duty at Baltimore, and is, by direction of the Presi- 
dent, in pursuance of the authority contained in the provisions of 
the Act of Congress approved March 3, 1887, "making appropria- 
tions for sundry civil expenses of the government," etc., relating to 
the methods of preventing the spread of epidemic diseases, to pro- 
ceed to the Island of Cuba for the purpose named in the letter of 
the President addressed to the secretary of war, April 17, 1888, and 
upon completion of this duty to return to his proper station and 
submit his report to the President. Dr. Sternberg is at the present 
time at the Hoagland Laboratory, Brooklyn, of which he is 
general director, engaged in making his preparations for his 
proposed trip to Cuba to pursue his investigation in yellow- 
fever. He expects to leave for Havana during the latter part 
of March. 

Legal Regulation of Medical Practice. —- The laws of 
West Virginia require that every physician in that State must have 
a certificate from the State Board of Health to entitle him to prac- 



